docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-micro/configuring/config-keystores.adoc, before:

[[configuring-alternate-keystores-for-ssl]]
= Configuring Alternate KeyStores for SSL

Payara Micro Enterprise comes with Keystore files directly embedded within the JAR file.

These can be overridden using the following standard Java SSL system properties:

* `javax.net.ssl.trustStore`
* `javax.net.ssl.keyStore`
* `javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword` 
* `javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword`

IMPORTANT: When packaging applications into an Uber Jar any keystores specified via system properties will be copied into 
the uberjar to replace the default internal keystores. However the uber jar will not contain the passwords 
and these must still be specified via the system properties.

[[setting-key-pair-at-runtime]]
== Setting the Key-Pair at Runtime

_Since Payara Server 4.1.2.182 and 5.182_

The key-pair to use as Payara Micro's SSL certificate can also be specified using the `--sslCert` command line option like
this:

[source, shell]
----
java -jar payara-micro.jar -sslCert my-custom-alias
----

NOTE: The default key-pair name is `s1as` if not overriden via the command line switch.

Commit message:

Note about `add-pkcs8` and `add-to-keystore` in Payara Micro

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-micro/configuring/config-keystores.adoc, after:

[[configuring-alternate-keystores-for-ssl]]
= Configuring Alternate KeyStores for SSL

Payara Micro Enterprise comes with Keystore files directly embedded within the JAR file.

These can be overridden using the following standard Java SSL system properties:

* `javax.net.ssl.trustStore`
* `javax.net.ssl.keyStore`
* `javax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword` 
* `javax.net.ssl.keyStorePassword`

IMPORTANT: When packaging applications into an Uber Jar any keystores specified via system properties will be copied into 
the uberjar to replace the default internal keystores. However the uber jar will not contain the passwords 
and these must still be specified via the system properties.

IMPORTANT: _asadmin_ commands like `add-pkcs8` and `add-to-keystore` are NOT supported in pre-boot and post-boot commands with Payara Micro and Java SSL system properties need to be used to point to the correct stores.

[[setting-key-pair-at-runtime]]
== Setting the Key-Pair at Runtime

_Since Payara Server 4.1.2.182 and 5.182_

The key-pair to use as Payara Micro's SSL certificate can also be specified using the `--sslCert` command line option like
this:

[source, shell]
----
java -jar payara-micro.jar -sslCert my-custom-alias
----

NOTE: The default key-pair name is `s1as` if not overriden via the command line switch.
