docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/ecosystem/docker-images/server-image-overview.adoc, before:

[[docker-image-overview]]
= Payara Server Docker Image Overview

Overview of the usage and details of the official Payara Server Enterprise Docker image.

[[quickstart]]
== Quick start

Launch a new Payara Server domain running in a container listening in port `8080` with the following command:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full
----

Keep in mind the following:

* The container starts the `production` domain in the foreground so the server's DAS becomes the main process. 
* The _tini_ utility is used to guarantee that the server runs seamlessly as the single child process. 
* The server's JVM process runs under the `payara` user.

IMPORTANT: It is recommended to specify the tag name of the Docker image that you plan to use, to guarantee that the correct Payara Enterprise version is used on your environment for guaranteed long-term stability

[source, shell]
.Using a specific version
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

[[other-distributions]]
== Other distributions

Besides the Full Profile version, the Payara Server Web Profile distribution is also available as a Docker Image under the `payara/server-web` name. The image for this distribution behaves the same as its Full Profile counterpart.

[[jdk-version]]
== Specifying the JDK Version

There are 2 different, alternative versions of the JDK images:

* The default version which is based on **JDK8**, uses no suffix.
* The **JDK 11** version, which uses the `-jdk11` suffix.

To switch from the default JDK 8 based image to the JDK 11 compatible one, just add the corresponding suffix to the tag's name like this:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}-jdk11
----

[[ports]]
== Exposed ports

The default ports that are exposed by this image are:

* 8080 - HTTP listener
* 8181 - HTTPS listener
* 4848 - Admin Service HTTPS listener
* 9009 - JWDP Debug port

[[administration]]
== Administration Details

To access the DAS' administration interface (either by remote asadmin commands or by using the Web Admin Console), just map the container's Admin Service port when launching the container:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 4848:4848 -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

By default, the admin service will be secure-enabled, meaning that HTTPS communication will be used exclusively.

IMPORTANT: The default administrator user with access to the admin interface will use the `admin/admin` credentials.

WARNING: If you plan to use this image in a production environment, make sure to update these credentials after the domain has started.

[[installation-details]]
== Installation Details

The Payara Server installation is located in the `/opt/payara/appserver` directory (identified by the `PAYARA_DIR` environment variable). The `/opt/payara/` parent directory is the default working directory of the docker image. 

IMPORTANT: The directory name is deliberately free of any versioning so that any scripts written to work with one version can be seamlessly migrated to the latest docker image.

[[application-deployment]]
== Application Deployment

[[deploy-from-directory]]
=== Deploy Applications from a Directory

The default entrypoint will scan the `$DEPLOY_DIR` directory (which defaults to `/opt/payara/deployments`) for files and sub-folders and deploy them automatically after the domain is started.

NOTE: Any RAR files artefacts found in the directory will always be deployed first

To deploy your applications, you can mount this directory as a Docker volume mapped to a local directory that hosts your application artefacts. 

The following sample command will launch a new Payara Server container and deploy all applications located in the `~/payara/apps` directory:

[docker, shell]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 -v ~/payara/apps:/opt/payara/deployments nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

[[deploy-using-custom-image]]
=== Deploy Applications using a Custom Image

You can also prepare a custom image based on the official Payara Server Docker image and copy all application artifacts to the `$DEPLOY_DIR` directory. This way, you can re-package your applications in a simple distributable unit.

The following sample _Dockerfile_ can be used to prepare a custom Payara Server image that deploys the `myapplication.war` artefact at runtime:

[source, Docker]
----
FROM nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
COPY myapplication.war $DEPLOY_DIR
----

And to launch the container, simply build and run the image like this:

[source, shell]
----
docker build -t mycompany/myapplication:1.0 .
docker run -p 8080:8080 mycompany/myapplication:1.0
----

[[configuration]]
== Configuration

[[using-environment-variables]]
=== Using Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be used to configure multiple settings of the Payara Server's DAS before the domain is started. They can be either specified in a custom image's `Dockerfile`, passed to the `docker run` command via the `--env` or `--env-file` arguments or modified by an init script before the `startInForeground.sh` script is executed:

[width="100%",cols="29%,50%,21%",options="header",]
|===
|Name |Description |Default Value
|`PREBOOT_COMMANDS`| The name of the file containing commands to be executed before the domain is started| `$CONFIG_DIR/post-boot-commands.asadmin` and `$CONFIG_DIR/pre-boot-commands.asadmin`
|`POSTBOOT_COMMANDS` |The name of the file containing commands to be executed after the domain is started. This is the file written to in the `generate_deploy_commands.sh` script| `$CONFIG_DIR/post-boot-commands.asadmin`
|`MEM_MAX_RAM_PERCENTAGE`| Value for the JVM argument `-XX:MaxRAMPercentage` which indicates the percentage of memory assigned to the container that can be used by the Java process| `70`
|`MEM_XSS`| Value for the JVM argument `-Xss` which controls the stack size| `512K`
|`DEPLOY_PROPS`| Specifies a list of properties to be passed with the deploy commands generated in the `generate_deploy_commands.sh` script|
|`PAYARA_ARGS`| Additional arguments passed to the `start-domain` command that starts the DAS. _Use with caution._|
|`JVM_ARGS`| Additional JVM arguments which will be used to configure the Payara Servers DAS JVM settings|
|===

The following is a list of variables used by the Docker image to configure the Payara Server domain, so it is not recommended to alter their values:

[width="100%",cols="29%,50%,21%",options="header",]
|===
|Name| Description| Value
|`HOME_DIR`| The home directory for the `payara` user| `/opt/payara` 
|`PAYARA_DIR`| The root directory of the Payara installation| `/opt/payara/appserver`
|`SCRIPT_DIR`| The directory where the `generate_deploy_commands.sh` and `startInForeground.sh` scripts can be found| `/opt/payara/scripts` 
|`CONFIG_DIR`| The directory where the post and pre boot files are generated to by default| `/opt/payara/config` 
|`DEPLOY_DIR`| The directory where applications are searched for in `generate_deploy_commands.sh` script| `/opt/payara/deployments`
|`ADMIN_USER`| The default username credential for the default administrator user| `admin`
|`ADMIN_PASSWORD`| The default password credential for the default administrator user. Can only be set when the basic image is created| `admin`
|`PASSWORD_FILE`| The location of the password file for asadmin. This can be passed to asadmin using the `--passwordfile` parameter| `/opt/payara/passwordFile`
|`DOMAIN_NAME`| The name of the domain running within the container | `production`
|`AS_ADMIN_MASTERPASSWORD`| The master password to pass to Payara Server. This is overridden if one is specified in the `$PASSWORD_FILE`| `changeit`
|===

[[executing-admin-commands-domain-startup]]
=== Executing Administration Commands at Domain Startup

It’s possible to run a set of custom administration commands during the domain startup. You can either specify the `PREBOOT_COMMANDS` or `POSTBOOT_COMMANDS` environment variables to point to the absolute path of a custom script file, or you can just copy the file to the expected paths (See above).

For example, the following sample command will execute all commands listed in the `post-boot-commands.asadmin` file inside the `/local/path/with/boot/file` directory mounted volume:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 -v /local/path/with/boot/file:/config -e POSTBOOT_COMMANDS=/config/post-boot-commands.asadmin nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

Alternatively, the same outcome can be achieved by defining a custom Docker image:

[source, Docker]
----
FROM nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full
COPY post-boot-commands.asadmin $POSTBOOT_COMMANDS
----

[[executing-custom-scripts-before-domain-startup]]
=== Executing Custom Scripts before Domain Startup

If preboot command files are not enough, you can add your customized shell scripts to the `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d` directory. This will allow you to modify the environment before the Payara Server domain starts. 

Scripts added to this folder should be link:https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/[Bash] scripts and they should end with the `.sh` suffix.

TIP: Scripts in `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d` will be executed in the standard file order. If you need to start them in a specific order, we recommend prepending a prefix number to their name, for example, `01_script1.sh`, `02_script2.sh`, and so on.

As with the preboot command file, you may either create a custom Docker image that already contains the script files in question or you can also mount a volume mapped to the `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d` directory instead.

[[default-entrypoint]]
=== The Default Docker Entrypoint

The default entry point of the Docker image is defined using the https://github.com/krallin/tini[tini utility], to allow the DAS's JVM to run as a single child process.

The default `CMD` argument for _tini_ runs the `bin/entrypoint.sh` shell script in `exec` mode, which in turn runs the following scripts in order:

. `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init_1_generate_deploy_commands.sh`: This script outputs deploy commands to the post-boot command file located at `$POSTBOOT_COMMANDS` (default `$CONFIG_DIR/post-boot-commands.asadmin`). If deploy commands are already found in that file, this script does nothing.
. `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d/*.sh`: As described above, these scripts can be provided by you to run and configure the environment *before* the domain startup.
. `${SCRIPT_DIR}/startInForeground.sh`. This script starts the domain in the foreground, in a manner that allows the JVM to be controlled by the docker host.

[[browsing-container]]
=== Browsing the Container

You can override the default entrypoint if needed to test or browse the container to examine that everything's in place. The following command will start the container at a bash prompt, without starting the domain.

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 -it nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion} bash
----

Commit message:

Minor fixes to subs in code blocks

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/ecosystem/docker-images/server-image-overview.adoc, after:

[[docker-image-overview]]
= Payara Server Docker Image Overview

Overview of the usage and details of the official Payara Server Enterprise Docker image.

[[quickstart]]
== Quick start

Launch a new Payara Server domain running in a container listening in port `8080` with the following command:

[source, shell]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full
----

Keep in mind the following:

* The container starts the `production` domain in the foreground so the server's DAS becomes the main process. 
* The _tini_ utility is used to guarantee that the server runs seamlessly as the single child process. 
* The server's JVM process runs under the `payara` user.

IMPORTANT: It is recommended to specify the tag of the correct Payara Enterprise version that will be used on your production environment for guaranteed long-term stability

[source, shell, subs=attributes+]
.Using a specific version
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

[[other-distributions]]
== Other distributions

Besides the Full Profile version, the Payara Server Web Profile distribution is also available as a Docker Image under the `payara/server-web` name. The image for this distribution behaves the same as its Full Profile counterpart.

[[jdk-version]]
== Specifying the JDK Version

There are 2 different, alternative versions of the JDK images:

* The default version which is based on **JDK8**, uses no suffix.
* The **JDK 11** version, which uses the `-jdk11` suffix.

To switch from the default JDK 8 based image to the JDK 11 compatible one, just add the corresponding suffix to the tag's name like this:

[source, shell, subs=attributes+]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}-jdk11
----

[[ports]]
== Exposed ports

The default ports that are exposed by this image are:

* 8080 - HTTP listener
* 8181 - HTTPS listener
* 4848 - Admin Service HTTPS listener
* 9009 - JWDP Debug port

[[administration]]
== Administration Details

To access the DAS' administration interface (either by remote asadmin commands or by using the Web Admin Console), just map the container's Admin Service port when launching the container:

[source, shell, subs=attributes+]
----
docker run -p 4848:4848 -p 8080:8080 nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

By default, the admin service will be secure-enabled, meaning that HTTPS communication will be used exclusively.

IMPORTANT: The default administrator user with access to the admin interface will use the `admin/admin` credentials.

CAUTION: Make sure to update the administrator credentials after the domain has started.

[[installation-details]]
== Installation Details

The Payara Server installation is located in the `/opt/payara/appserver` directory (identified by the `PAYARA_DIR` environment variable). The `/opt/payara/` parent directory is the default working directory of the docker image. 

IMPORTANT: The directory name is deliberately free of any versioning so that any scripts written to work with one version can be seamlessly migrated to the latest docker image.

[[application-deployment]]
== Application Deployment

[[deploy-from-directory]]
=== Deploy Applications from a Directory

The default entrypoint will scan the `$DEPLOY_DIR` directory (which defaults to `/opt/payara/deployments`) for files and sub-folders and deploy them automatically after the domain is started.

NOTE: Any RAR files artefacts found in the directory will always be deployed first

To deploy your applications, you can mount this directory as a Docker volume mapped to a local directory that hosts your application artefacts. 

The following sample command will launch a new Payara Server container and deploy all applications located in the `~/payara/apps` directory:

[docker, shell, subs=attributes+]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 -v ~/payara/apps:/opt/payara/deployments nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

[[deploy-using-custom-image]]
=== Deploy Applications using a Custom Image

You can also prepare a custom image based on the official Payara Server Docker image and copy all application artifacts to the `$DEPLOY_DIR` directory. This way, you can re-package your applications in a simple distributable unit.

The following sample _Dockerfile_ can be used to prepare a custom Payara Server image that deploys the `myapplication.war` artefact at runtime:

[source, Docker, subs=attributes+]
----
FROM nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
COPY myapplication.war $DEPLOY_DIR
----

And to launch the container, simply build and run the image like this:

[source, shell]
----
docker build -t mycompany/myapplication:1.0 .
docker run -p 8080:8080 mycompany/myapplication:1.0
----

[[configuration]]
== Configuration

[[using-environment-variables]]
=== Using Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be used to configure multiple settings of the Payara Server's DAS before the domain is started. They can be either specified in a custom image's `Dockerfile`, passed to the `docker run` command via the `--env` or `--env-file` arguments or modified by an init script before the `startInForeground.sh` script is executed:

[width="100%",cols="29%,50%,21%",options="header",]
|===
|Name |Description |Default Value
|`PREBOOT_COMMANDS`| The name of the file containing commands to be executed before the domain is started| `$CONFIG_DIR/post-boot-commands.asadmin` and `$CONFIG_DIR/pre-boot-commands.asadmin`
|`POSTBOOT_COMMANDS` |The name of the file containing commands to be executed after the domain is started. This is the file written to in the `generate_deploy_commands.sh` script| `$CONFIG_DIR/post-boot-commands.asadmin`
|`MEM_MAX_RAM_PERCENTAGE`| Value for the JVM argument `-XX:MaxRAMPercentage` which indicates the percentage of memory assigned to the container that can be used by the Java process| `70`
|`MEM_XSS`| Value for the JVM argument `-Xss` which controls the stack size| `512K`
|`DEPLOY_PROPS`| Specifies a list of properties to be passed with the deploy commands generated in the `generate_deploy_commands.sh` script|
|`PAYARA_ARGS`| Additional arguments passed to the `start-domain` command that starts the DAS. _Use with caution._|
|`JVM_ARGS`| Additional JVM arguments which will be used to configure the Payara Servers DAS JVM settings|
|===

The following is a list of variables used by the Docker image to configure the Payara Server domain, so it is not recommended to alter their values:

[width="100%",cols="29%,50%,21%",options="header",]
|===
|Name| Description| Value
|`HOME_DIR`| The home directory for the `payara` user| `/opt/payara` 
|`PAYARA_DIR`| The root directory of the Payara installation| `/opt/payara/appserver`
|`SCRIPT_DIR`| The directory where the `generate_deploy_commands.sh` and `startInForeground.sh` scripts can be found| `/opt/payara/scripts` 
|`CONFIG_DIR`| The directory where the post and pre boot files are generated to by default| `/opt/payara/config` 
|`DEPLOY_DIR`| The directory where applications are searched for in `generate_deploy_commands.sh` script| `/opt/payara/deployments`
|`ADMIN_USER`| The default username credential for the default administrator user| `admin`
|`ADMIN_PASSWORD`| The default password credential for the default administrator user. Can only be set when the basic image is created| `admin`
|`PASSWORD_FILE`| The location of the password file for asadmin. This can be passed to asadmin using the `--passwordfile` parameter| `/opt/payara/passwordFile`
|`DOMAIN_NAME`| The name of the domain running within the container | `production`
|`AS_ADMIN_MASTERPASSWORD`| The master password to pass to Payara Server. This is overridden if one is specified in the `$PASSWORD_FILE`| `changeit`
|===

[[executing-admin-commands-domain-startup]]
=== Executing Administration Commands at Domain Startup

It’s possible to run a set of custom administration commands during the domain startup. You can either specify the `PREBOOT_COMMANDS` or `POSTBOOT_COMMANDS` environment variables to point to the absolute path of a custom script file, or you can just copy the file to the expected paths (See above).

For example, the following sample command will execute all commands listed in the `post-boot-commands.asadmin` file inside the `/local/path/with/boot/file` directory mounted volume:

[source, shell, subs=attributes+]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 -v /local/path/with/boot/file:/config -e POSTBOOT_COMMANDS=/config/post-boot-commands.asadmin nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
----

Alternatively, the same outcome can be achieved by defining a custom Docker image:

[source, Docker, subs=attributes+]
----
FROM nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion}
COPY post-boot-commands.asadmin $POSTBOOT_COMMANDS
----

[[executing-custom-scripts-before-domain-startup]]
=== Executing Custom Scripts before Domain Startup

If preboot command files are not enough, you can add your customized shell scripts to the `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d` directory. This will allow you to modify the environment before the Payara Server domain starts. 

Scripts added to this folder should be link:https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/[Bash] scripts and they should end with the `.sh` suffix.

TIP: Scripts in `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d` will be executed in the standard file order. If you need to start them in a specific order, we recommend prepending a prefix number to their name, for example, `01_script1.sh`, `02_script2.sh`, and so on.

As with the preboot command file, you may either create a custom Docker image that already contains the script files in question or you can also mount a volume mapped to the `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d` directory instead.

[[default-entrypoint]]
=== The Default Docker Entrypoint

The default entry point of the Docker image is defined using the https://github.com/krallin/tini[tini utility], to allow the DAS's JVM to run as a single child process.

The default `CMD` argument for _tini_ runs the `bin/entrypoint.sh` shell script in `exec` mode, which in turn runs the following scripts in order:

. `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init_1_generate_deploy_commands.sh`: This script outputs deploy commands to the post-boot command file located at `$POSTBOOT_COMMANDS` (default `$CONFIG_DIR/post-boot-commands.asadmin`). If deploy commands are already found in that file, this script does nothing.
. `${SCRIPT_DIR}/init.d/*.sh`: As described above, these scripts can be provided by you to run and configure the environment *before* the domain startup.
. `${SCRIPT_DIR}/startInForeground.sh`. This script starts the domain in the foreground, in a manner that allows the JVM to be controlled by the docker host.

[[browsing-container]]
=== Browsing the Container

You can override the default entrypoint if needed to test or browse the container to examine that everything's in place. The following command will start the container at a bash prompt, without starting the domain.

[source, shell, subs=attributes+]
----
docker run -p 8080:8080 -it nexus.payara.fish:5000/payara/server-full:{currentVersion} bash
----
