docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/request-tracing-service/usage.adoc, before:

[[usage]]
= Usage

Tracing in the Payara Platform is done either automatically, or by using using the MicroProfile OpenTracing `@Traced`
annotation. This section covers manually decorating your applications for tracing.

[[using-the-traced-annotation]]
== Using the `@Traced` Annotation

The `@Traced` annotation can be placed on CDI Bean methods to automatically trace each call
of the method. You can also place the annotation on the class itself to trace all methods
within the class, rather than adding the annotation to each method individually.

The `@Traced` annotation accepts two optional parameters:

* `operationName` - defines the operation name of the span. If left blank it will default to the
canonical method signature.
* `value` - a boolean true or false to determine if the method should be traced. Defaults to true.

[source, java]
----
@RequestScoped
public class TracedExample {

    @Traced
    public String method1() {
        return "anon1";
    }

    @Traced(operationName = "tracingTest")
    public String method2() {
        return "anon2";
    }

}
----

The `@Traced` the annotation operates as an Interceptor, so for the decorated methods of
your CDI Beans to be traced they need to be a) not static or private, and b) accessed externally
or via self-injection. This means that in the following example, `method1` of the above class
would be traced, and `method2` would not:

[source, java]
----
@Path("/")
@RequestScoped
public class JaxrsEndpoints {

    @Inject
    TracedExample tracedExample;

    @GET
    public String method1Traced() {
        return tracedExample.method1();
    }

    @GET
    public String method2NotTraced() {
        return new TracedExample().method2();
    }

}
----

TIP: Annotations applied to methods take precedence over those applied to classes. This allows you to
whitelist or blacklist methods for tracing.

The dependency to add to your application to get access to the `@Traced` annotation is the following:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.eclipse.microprofile.opentracing</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile-opentracing-api</artifactId>
    <version>1.3.1</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

[[using-the-tracer-class]]
== Using the `Tracer` Class

The `Tracer` class allows you to manually start, finish, and add information to Spans.
To access the tracer in your applications, you can inject it like so:

[source, java]
----
@Inject
Tracer tracer;
----

Starting a Span, marking it as the active Span (the one from which any children will spawn), and ending
it is done like so with a _try-with-resources_ block:

[source, java]
----
public void tracerExample() {
    try (Span span = tracer.buildSpan("example").startActive(true)) {
        // Code to trace
    }
}
----

If you wish to add any Tags or Logs to your Spans, even those started by the `@Traced` annotation,
you can do this like so:

[source, java]
----
@GET
@Path
@Traced
public String example2() {
    tracer.activeSpan().setTag("exampleTag", "foo").log("exampleLog");
    return "anon";
}
----

The `Tracer` class also gives you access to the `inject` and `extract` methods, which you can use for tracing
across threads and processes. It is recommended however that you simply use a Managed Executor
Service for your asynchronous tasks and the default JAX-RS client implementation or MicroProfile REST Client for
JAX-RS calls as these will automatically do this for you.

[[disabling-automatic-tracing]]
== Disabling Automatic Tracing of JAX-RS Methods and MicroProfile REST Client Calls
By default, calls to JAX-RS methods and any calls by a MicroProfile REST Client are traced.

[[disabling-jaxrs-tracing]]
=== Disabling Automatic Tracing of JAX-RS Methods

To disable tracing of JAX-RS methods, you can use the `@Traced` annotation on each method or class
that you wish to skip tracing of.

[source, java]
----
@Path("/")
@RequestScoped
public class JaxrsEndpoints {

    @Inject
    TracedExample tracedExample;

    // Automatically traced
    @GET
    public String method1Traced() {
        return tracedExample.method1();
    }

    // Tracing disabled
    @GET
    @Traced(false)
    public String method2NotTraced() {
        return new TracedExample().method2();
    }

}
----

You can also use tracing of JAX-RS methods by defining a skip pattern using a
MicroProfile Config properties file or config source. These skip patterns accept Java regular
expressions to match against the URI of your JAX-RS methods.

[source, shell]
----
mp.opentracing.server.skip-pattern=/foo|/bar.*
----

[[disabling-microprofile-rest-client-tracing]]
=== Disabling Automatic Tracing of MicroProfile REST Client

To disable tracing of MicroProfile REST Client calls, annotate the client interface or method with
`@Traced(false)`.

[source, java]
----
@Traced(false)
@Path("/")
public interface ExampleClient {

    @GET
    @Path("test")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    Response example();
}
----

Commit message:

FISH-244 Document tracing of remote EJBs

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/request-tracing-service/usage.adoc, after:

[[usage]]
= Usage

Tracing in the Payara Platform is done either automatically, or by using using the MicroProfile OpenTracing `@Traced`
annotation. This section covers manually decorating your applications for tracing.

[[using-the-traced-annotation]]
== Using the `@Traced` Annotation

The `@Traced` annotation can be placed on CDI Bean methods to automatically trace each call
of the method. You can also place the annotation on the class itself to trace all methods
within the class, rather than adding the annotation to each method individually.

The `@Traced` annotation accepts two optional parameters:

* `operationName` - defines the operation name of the span. If left blank it will default to the
canonical method signature.
* `value` - a boolean true or false to determine if the method should be traced. Defaults to true.

[source, java]
----
@RequestScoped
public class TracedExample {

    @Traced
    public String method1() {
        return "anon1";
    }

    @Traced(operationName = "tracingTest")
    public String method2() {
        return "anon2";
    }

}
----

The `@Traced` the annotation operates as an Interceptor, so for the decorated methods of
your CDI Beans to be traced they need to be a) not static or private, and b) accessed externally
or via self-injection. This means that in the following example, `method1` of the above class
would be traced, and `method2` would not:

[source, java]
----
@Path("/")
@RequestScoped
public class JaxrsEndpoints {

    @Inject
    TracedExample tracedExample;

    @GET
    public String method1Traced() {
        return tracedExample.method1();
    }

    @GET
    public String method2NotTraced() {
        return new TracedExample().method2();
    }

}
----

TIP: Annotations applied to methods take precedence over those applied to classes. This allows you to
whitelist or blacklist methods for tracing.

The dependency to add to your application to get access to the `@Traced` annotation is the following:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.eclipse.microprofile.opentracing</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile-opentracing-api</artifactId>
    <version>1.3.1</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

[[using-the-tracer-class]]
== Using the `Tracer` Class

The `Tracer` class allows you to manually start, finish, and add information to Spans.
To access the tracer in your applications, you can inject it like so:

[source, java]
----
@Inject
Tracer tracer;
----

NOTE: You can only inject a Tracer when your application is running inside a Payara Platform runtime
- you cannot do so from a Java SE client. From a Java SE client you must use the OpenTracing.io
`GlobalTracer`, see
xref:/documentation/payara-server/request-tracing-service/tracing-remote-ejbs.adoc#getting-a-tracer[here]
for more details.

Starting a Span, marking it as the active Span (the one from which any children will spawn), and ending
it is done like so with a _try-with-resources_ block:

[source, java]
----
public void tracerExample() {
    try (Span span = tracer.buildSpan("example").startActive(true)) {
        // Code to trace
    }
}
----

If you wish to add any Tags or Logs to your Spans, even those started by the `@Traced` annotation,
you can do this like so:

[source, java]
----
@GET
@Path
@Traced
public String example2() {
    tracer.activeSpan().setTag("exampleTag", "foo").log("exampleLog");
    return "anon";
}
----

The `Tracer` class also gives you access to the `inject` and `extract` methods, which you can use for tracing
across threads and processes. It is recommended however that you simply use a Managed Executor
Service for your asynchronous tasks and the default JAX-RS client implementation or MicroProfile REST Client for
JAX-RS calls as these will automatically do this for you.

[[disabling-automatic-tracing]]
== Disabling Automatic Tracing of JAX-RS Methods and MicroProfile REST Client Calls
By default, calls to JAX-RS methods and any calls by a MicroProfile REST Client are traced.

[[disabling-jaxrs-tracing]]
=== Disabling Automatic Tracing of JAX-RS Methods

To disable tracing of JAX-RS methods, you can use the `@Traced` annotation on each method or class
that you wish to skip tracing of.

[source, java]
----
@Path("/")
@RequestScoped
public class JaxrsEndpoints {

    @Inject
    TracedExample tracedExample;

    // Automatically traced
    @GET
    public String method1Traced() {
        return tracedExample.method1();
    }

    // Tracing disabled
    @GET
    @Traced(false)
    public String method2NotTraced() {
        return new TracedExample().method2();
    }

}
----

You can also use tracing of JAX-RS methods by defining a skip pattern using a
MicroProfile Config properties file or config source. These skip patterns accept Java regular
expressions to match against the URI of your JAX-RS methods.

[source, shell]
----
mp.opentracing.server.skip-pattern=/foo|/bar.*
----

[[disabling-microprofile-rest-client-tracing]]
=== Disabling Automatic Tracing of MicroProfile REST Client

To disable tracing of MicroProfile REST Client calls, annotate the client interface or method with
`@Traced(false)`.

[source, java]
----
@Traced(false)
@Path("/")
public interface ExampleClient {

    @GET
    @Path("test")
    @Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN)
    Response example();
}
----
