docs/modules/ROOT/pages/general-info/supported-platforms.adoc, before:

= Supported Platforms

Though it is always possible for new versions to be supported, this page
details the JVMs currently supported by the Payara Platform Enterprise (both Payara Server Enterprise and Payara Micro Enterprise).

While not all environments are tested, if it is on a supported JVM we will
provide support for customers and address issues reported by the community.
Similarly, other platforms can always be requested for support.

== Supported Java Virtual Machines

The Payara Platform currently supports the following Java Virtual Machines:

* Zulu Enterprise JDK: 8 (u162+), 11 (11.0.5u10+)
* Oracle JDK: 8 (u162+), 11 (11.0.5+)
* Amazon Corretto: 8, 11 (11.0.5+)
* Adopt Open JDK: 8, 11 (11.0.5+)
* Adopt Open JDK with Eclipse Open J9

TLS 1.3 is supported on JDK 8 with Zulu Enterprise 1.8.222+, Open JDK 8u262+ based builds, and all version 11 of all above JDKs.

NOTE: A separate Payara Server Blue distribution is no longer required for IBM Java SDK.

== Supported Architectures

The Payara Platform currently supports the `x64` and `arm64` CPU architectures. 

In general, Payara Server supports any architecture supported by at least one of the supported JVMs.

== Supported Operating Systems

The Payara Platform currently supports the following Operating Systems in all the versions listed below and all their newer versions:

* Windows
** Windows 7+ (only in development)
** Windows Server 2008+
* Linux
** Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty Tahr) LTS+
** SUSE 11.4, 12.2+, 15.0+
** RHEL 5+
** Amazon Linux (all versions)
** Debian 7 (Wheezy)+
* Other
** MacOS(OSX) 10.10.5 (Yosemite)+ (only in development)
** IBM AIX 7.1+ 

In general, Payara Server runs on any system supported by at least one of the supported JVMs.

Commit message:

Moved supported architectures to JVM section

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/general-info/supported-platforms.adoc, after:

= Supported Platforms

Though it is always possible for new versions to be supported, this page
details the JVMs currently supported by the Payara Platform Enterprise (both Payara Server Enterprise and Payara Micro Enterprise).

While not all environments are tested, if it is on a supported JVM we will
provide support for customers and address issues reported by the community.
Similarly, other platforms can always be requested for support.

== Supported Java Virtual Machines

The Payara Platform currently supports the following Java Virtual Machines:

* Zulu Enterprise JDK: 8 (u162+), 11 (11.0.5u10+)
* Oracle JDK: 8 (u162+), 11 (11.0.5+)
* Amazon Corretto: 8, 11 (11.0.5+)
* Adopt Open JDK: 8, 11 (11.0.5+)
* Adopt Open JDK with Eclipse Open J9

The Payara Platform currently supports the `x64` and `arm64` variants of the above JVMs. Payara Enterprise customers can request support for other CPU architecture variants.

TLS 1.3 is supported on JDK 8 with Zulu Enterprise 1.8.222+, Open JDK 8u262+ based builds, and all version 11 of all above JDKs.

NOTE: A separate Payara Server Blue distribution is no longer required for IBM Java SDK.

== Supported Operating Systems

The Payara Platform currently supports the following Operating Systems in all the versions listed below and all their newer versions:

* Windows
** Windows 7+ (only in development)
** Windows Server 2008+
* Linux
** Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty Tahr) LTS+
** SUSE 11.4, 12.2+, 15.0+
** RHEL 5+
** Amazon Linux (all versions)
** Debian 7 (Wheezy)+
* Other
** MacOS(OSX) 10.10.5 (Yosemite)+ (only in development)
** IBM AIX 7.1+ 

In general, Payara Server runs on any system supported by at least one of the supported JVMs.
