docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-micro/asadmin/send-asadmin-commands.adoc, before:

[[sending-asadmin-commands-to-payara-micro-from-a-domain-administration-server]]
= Sending Asadmin Commands to Payara Micro from a Domain Administration Server

Asadmin commands can be sent from the Domain Administration Server (DAS) to
Payara Micro Enterprise instances that are running within the same data grid as the DAS.

Since *5.184*, `stop-domain` can also be issued to a Payara Micro Enterprise instance.

This can be achieved either using the admin console or from the command line.

[[sending-asadmin-commands-using-the-admin-console]]
== Sending Asadmin Commands using the Admin Console

To send asadmin commands using the Domain Administration Server you must first
ensure that the DAS itself is within the same Hazelcast cluster as the micro
instances. Hazelcast can be enabled for the DAS on the Domain tab, under the
_Hazelcast_ section:

image:payara-micro/enable-hazelcast-on-das.png[Enable Hazelcast]

From here, selecting the _Cluster Members_ tab brings up the instances within
the cluster. At the bottom of the page, you will find a table filled with the
Payara Micro instances:

image:payara-micro/micro-instances-on-das.png[Micro Instances on DAS]

To send an administration command:

. Select the recipient nodes
. Enter the asadmin command in the textbox
. Press *Send Asadmin Command*

image:payara-micro/sending-asadmin-command-from-the-das-to-micro.png[Send commands from DAS]

[[sending-asadmin-commands-from-the-command-line]]
== Sending Asadmin Commands from the Command Line

To send administration commands using the command line there is a new `asadmin`
command for the Domain Administration Server - `send-asadmin-command`.
The asadmin command is entered using the `--command` option, which only accepts
a single command as an input (including said commands own arguments).

As an example of sending a command from the command line:

[source, shell]
----
asadmin send-asadmin-command --command deploy /home/user/application --contextRoot=/example
----

Commit message:

Fix documentation around Data Grid enabled

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-micro/asadmin/send-asadmin-commands.adoc, after:

[[sending-asadmin-commands-to-payara-micro-from-a-domain-administration-server]]
= Sending Asadmin Commands to Payara Micro from a Domain Administration Server

Asadmin commands can be sent from the Domain Administration Server (DAS) to
Payara Micro Enterprise instances that are running within the same data grid as the DAS.

Since *5.184*, `stop-domain` can also be issued to a Payara Micro Enterprise instance.

This can be achieved either using the admin console or from the command line.

[[sending-asadmin-commands-using-the-admin-console]]
== Sending Asadmin Commands using the Admin Console

Sending an Asadmin command is performed through the Domain Data Grid. This
Data Grid is powered by Hazelcast and is enabled by default. You can verify if it
active by looking under the _server-config_ configuration under the _Data Grid_ item.

image:payara-micro/enable-hazelcast-on-das.png[Enable Hazelcast]

All the members can be seen under the _Data Grid_ entry of the Domain item on the left menu.
At the bottom of the page, you will find a table filled with the
Payara Micro instances:

image:payara-micro/micro-instances-on-das.png[Micro Instances on DAS]

To send an administration command:

. Select the recipient nodes
. Enter the asadmin command in the textbox
. Press *Send Asadmin Command*

image:payara-micro/sending-asadmin-command-from-the-das-to-micro.png[Send commands from DAS]

[[sending-asadmin-commands-from-the-command-line]]
== Sending Asadmin Commands from the Command Line

To send administration commands using the command line there is a new `asadmin`
command for the Domain Administration Server - `send-asadmin-command`.
The asadmin command is entered using the `--command` option, which only accepts
a single command as an input (including said commands own arguments).

As an example of sending a command from the command line:

[source, shell]
----
asadmin send-asadmin-command --command deploy /home/user/application --contextRoot=/example
----
