docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/deployment-groups/asadmin-commands.adoc, before:

[deployent-groups-commands-reference]]
= Deployment Group Asadmin Commands

This is the asadmin command reference for deployment groups.

[[create-deployment-group-command]]
== `create-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> create-deployment-group name`

*Aim*::
This command creates a new deployment group

[[delete-deployment-group-command]]
== `delete-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> delete-deployment-group name`

*Aim*::
This command deletes the specified deployment group


[[list-deployment-groups-command]]
== `list-deployment-groups`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> list-deployment-groups`

*Aim*::
Lists all deployment groups in the domain

[[start-deployment-group-command]]
== `start-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> start-deployment-group <options> name`

*Aim*::
This command starts all server instances in the deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| verbose
| Boolean
| Start instances in verbose mode
| true
| No

| instanceTimeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to instances
| 120
| No
|===

[[stop-deployment-group-command]]
== `stop-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> stop-deployment-group <options> name`

*Aim*::
This command stops all server instances in the deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| verbose
| Boolean
| Stop instances in verbose mode
| true
| No

| kill
| Boolean
| Kills instances if they do not stop gracefully
| false
| No
|===

[[restart-deployment-group-command]]
== `restart-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> restart-deployment-group <options> name`

*Aim*::
This command stops all server instances in the deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| verbose
| Boolean
| Restart instances in verbose mode
| true
| No

| rolling
| Boolean
| Performs a rolling restart which each instance restarted in turn
| true
| No

| --delay
| Integer
| Delay in (ms) between each instance restart in a rolling restart
| 5000
| No
|===

[[add-instance-to-deployment-group-command]]
== `add-instance-to-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> add-instance-to-deployment-group <options>`

*Aim*::
This command add an existing instance to a deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| instance
| String
| Name of an existing instance
| None
| Yes

| deploymentgroup
| String
| The deployment group to add the instance to
| None
| Yes

|===

[[remove-instance-from-deployment-group-command]]
== `remove-instance-from-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> remove-instance-from-deployment-group <options>`

*Aim*::
This command removes an instance from a deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| instance
| String
| Name of an existing instance in the deployment group
| None
| Yes

| deploymentgroup
| String
| The deployment group to remove the instance from
| None
| Yes

|===

Commit message:

FISH-898 Add documentation for timeout option

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/deployment-groups/asadmin-commands.adoc, after:

[deployent-groups-commands-reference]]
= Deployment Group Asadmin Commands

This is the asadmin command reference for deployment groups.

[[create-deployment-group-command]]
== `create-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> create-deployment-group name`

*Aim*::
This command creates a new deployment group

[[delete-deployment-group-command]]
== `delete-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> delete-deployment-group name`

*Aim*::
This command deletes the specified deployment group


[[list-deployment-groups-command]]
== `list-deployment-groups`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> list-deployment-groups`

*Aim*::
Lists all deployment groups in the domain

[[start-deployment-group-command]]
== `start-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> start-deployment-group <options> name`

*Aim*::
This command starts all server instances in the deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| verbose
| Boolean
| Start instances in verbose mode
| true
| No

| instanceTimeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to instances
| 120
| No

| timeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to the command
| 600
| No
|===

[[stop-deployment-group-command]]
== `stop-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> stop-deployment-group <options> name`

*Aim*::
This command stops all server instances in the deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| verbose
| Boolean
| Stop instances in verbose mode
| true
| No

| kill
| Boolean
| Kills instances if they do not stop gracefully
| false
| No

| instanceTimeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to instances
| 120
| No

| timeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to the command
| 600
| No
|===

[[restart-deployment-group-command]]
== `restart-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> restart-deployment-group <options> name`

*Aim*::
This command stops all server instances in the deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| verbose
| Boolean
| Restart instances in verbose mode
| true
| No

| rolling
| Boolean
| Performs a rolling restart which each instance restarted in turn
| true
| No

| --delay
| Integer
| Delay in (ms) between each instance restart in a rolling restart
| 5000
| No

| instanceTimeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to instances
| 120
| No

| timeout
| Integer
| Add a timeout value to the command
| 600
| No
|===

[[add-instance-to-deployment-group-command]]
== `add-instance-to-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> add-instance-to-deployment-group <options>`

*Aim*::
This command add an existing instance to a deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| instance
| String
| Name of an existing instance
| None
| Yes

| deploymentgroup
| String
| The deployment group to add the instance to
| None
| Yes

|===

[[remove-instance-from-deployment-group-command]]
== `remove-instance-from-deployment-group`

_Since Payara Server 5.181_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> remove-instance-from-deployment-group <options>`

*Aim*::
This command removes an instance from a deployment group

|===
|Options | Type | Description | Default | Mandatory

| instance
| String
| Name of an existing instance in the deployment group
| None
| Yes

| deploymentgroup
| String
| The deployment group to remove the instance from
| None
| Yes

|===
