docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/system-properties.adoc, before:

[[system-properties]]
= System Properties

The following properties are used by Payara Server to configure
special behavior settings:

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
| Option | Value Type | Description | Accepted Values | Default
| fish.payara.clientHttpsProtocol | String | Sets the TLS version to be
used by the asadmin client. This is separate from the TLS version set
for HTTPS communication on a listener. | TLSv1, TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3 |TLSv1.2

| fish.payara.classloading.delegate | Boolean | When set to false,
libraries from applications, and
_latexmath:[${Domain}_/lib will override the library in _$]\{Product-Root}_/modules
directory | true, false | true

| fish.payara.shutdowngrace | Integer | After server shutdown is initiated the server waits this period of time to finish ongoing requests before terminating. Currently, new requests are still accepted during this grace period.| 0 - Integer.MAX | 0

| fish.payara.permittedFormBasedAuthHttpMethods | String | A comma separated list of HTTP methods that are permitted to use for FORM based authentication (`j_security_check`). If not set all HTTP methods are permitted. | GET,HEAD,POST,PUT,DELETE,CONNECT,OPTIONS,TRACE,PATCH | null (undefined)

| fish.payara.admin.command.jline.log.disable | Boolean | When set to true, JLine logging entries for invalid key bindings and other unwanted errors will be prevented - This is a property for the asadmin tool | true, false | false

| fish.payara.SO_KEEPALIVE | String | Enables keep alive (`SO_KEEPALIVE`) on the sockets created by an IIOP listener. Can be set as a global system property, or as a property on a specific listener (with the latter taking precedence over the global setting if both are set). Replaces deprecated property `fish.payara.SOKeepAlive`. | true, false | false (undefined)

| org.glassfish.grizzly.DEFAULT_MEMORY_MANAGER | String | If option (defined as JVM Option with -D or as System Property value) `org.glassfish.grizzly.DEFAULT_MEMORY_MANAGER` is not present in the server/instance config, we will override the Grizzly default and use the _HeapMemoryManager_ class. To override this behaviour (so to use a different memory manager), you must specify this JVM option in the server/instance config with your desired setting. | `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.HeapMemoryManager`, `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.PooledMemoryManager`, `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.ByteBufferManager` | `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.HeapMemoryManager`

| deployment.resource.validation | boolean | This option (defined as JVM Option with -D or as System Property value) defines if the resources are validated during deployment of the application. When active, the default value, all JNDI references are verified but those references can be provided by the application itself and thus not yet available at deployment time (for example the `java:module/env/` based ones). By setting this option to false, validation is not performed and deployment will succeed. However, issues will occur at runtime of the application in case of errors in the references.
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

FISH-987 Document new property and fix table
Signed-off-by: Andrew Pielage <pandrex247@hotmail.com>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/system-properties.adoc, after:

[[system-properties]]
= System Properties

The following properties are used by Payara Server to configure
special behavior settings:

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
| Option | Value Type | Description | Accepted Values | Default
| fish.payara.clientHttpsProtocol | String | Sets the TLS version to be
used by the asadmin client. This is separate from the TLS version set
for HTTPS communication on a listener. | TLSv1, TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3 |TLSv1.2

| fish.payara.classloading.delegate | Boolean | When set to false,
libraries from applications, and
_latexmath:[${Domain}_/lib will override the library in _$]\{Product-Root}_/modules
directory | true, false | true

| fish.payara.shutdowngrace | Integer | After server shutdown is initiated the server waits this period of time to finish ongoing requests before terminating. Currently, new requests are still accepted during this grace period.| 0 - Integer.MAX | 0

| fish.payara.permittedFormBasedAuthHttpMethods | String | A comma separated list of HTTP methods that are permitted to use for FORM based authentication (`j_security_check`). If not set all HTTP methods are permitted. | GET,HEAD,POST,PUT,DELETE,CONNECT,OPTIONS,TRACE,PATCH | null (undefined)

| fish.payara.admin.command.jline.log.disable | Boolean | When set to true, JLine logging entries for invalid key bindings and other unwanted errors will be prevented - This is a property for the asadmin tool | true, false | false

| fish.payara.SO_KEEPALIVE | String | Enables keep alive (`SO_KEEPALIVE`) on the sockets created by an IIOP listener. Can be set as a global system property, or as a property on a specific listener (with the latter taking precedence over the global setting if both are set). Replaces deprecated property `fish.payara.SOKeepAlive`. | true, false | false (undefined)

| org.glassfish.grizzly.DEFAULT_MEMORY_MANAGER | String | If option (defined as JVM Option with -D or as System Property value) `org.glassfish.grizzly.DEFAULT_MEMORY_MANAGER` is not present in the server/instance config, we will override the Grizzly default and use the _HeapMemoryManager_ class. To override this behaviour (so to use a different memory manager), you must specify this JVM option in the server/instance config with your desired setting. | `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.HeapMemoryManager`, `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.PooledMemoryManager`, `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.ByteBufferManager` | `org.glassfish.grizzly.memory.HeapMemoryManager`

| deployment.resource.validation | boolean | This option (defined as JVM Option with -D or as System Property value) defines if the resources are validated during deployment of the application. When active, the default value, all JNDI references are verified but those references can be provided by the application itself and thus not yet available at deployment time (for example the `java:module/env/` based ones). By setting this option to false, validation is not performed and deployment will succeed. However, issues will occur at runtime of the application in case of errors in the references.| true, false | true

| fish.payara.javax.servlet.jsp.disable-static-field-references | boolean | This option brings back the behaviour of evaluating EL in JSPs from GlassFish 3. When enabled, a static field reference won't be evaluated. | true, false | false (undefined)
|=======================================================================
