docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/upgrade-server.adoc, before:

[[upgrade-server]]
= Upgrade Payara Server

Payara Server can be upgraded to new versions from version *5.24.0*

NOTE: This feature is in technical preview.

NOTE: The update tool is not currently supported on Windows.

[[upgrade-server-command]]
== Upgrade Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> upgrade-server`

*Aim*::
This command can be used to upgrade Payara Server to the specified distribution along with all SSH nodes in the _domain.xml_.
The command will also back up the old version and domains in the default location (_payara5/glassfish/domains_) to allow for rolling back. The command can also be used to downgrade to an older Payara version although this is not encouraged.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--username` |String | The username for the Payara Nexus server.||Yes
|`--version` |String |Specifies the version number of the new version of Payara to use.| |Yes
|`--distribution` |Enum |Specifies the distribution of Payara Server to download. This can payara, payara-web, payara-ml, or payara-web-ml.|payara|No
|=======================================================================

[[upgrade-example]]
=== Example

This example upgrades a Payara Web distribution to version 5.24.1

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> upgrade-server --username example-user --distribution web --verson 5.24.1
----

[[rollback-server-command]]
== Rollback Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> rollback-server`

*Aim*::
This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. This does not rollback the _domain.xml_. The domain.xml backup can be found under _$domaindir/backups_ (e.g. _payara5/glassfish/domains/domain1/backups_).

[[example-5]]
=== Example

This example rolls back the server.

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> rollback-server
----

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Added link to the artifact in Nexus.
Changed the "technical preview" wording.
Some more improvements according to the suggestions and the release blog.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/upgrade-server.adoc, after:

[[upgrade-server]]
= Upgrade Payara Server

__Since Payara Platform 5.24.0. Can be installed manually to Payara Platform 5.20.0 and newer._

This tool can be used to upgrade a Payara Server installation to a newer version. The Upgrade Tool is bundled in Payara Server versions from version *5.24.0*. It can also be obtained from Payara Nexus as the https://nexus.payara.fish/#browse/browse:payara-enterprise:fish%2Fpayara%2Fextras%2Fpayara-upgrade-tool[payara-upgrade-tool artifact] (groupId: `fish.payara.extras`, artifactId: `payara-upgrade-tool`). If obtained from the Payara Nexus, drop the JAR artifact into your Payara Server installation under `payara5/glassfish/lib/asadmin`. The version 1.0 of the standalone upgrade tool can be installed into Payara Server Enterprise 5.20.0 or newer and supports upgrading to any newer Payara Server Enterprise version.

NOTE: This feature is currently released as a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) and will be gradually getting additional enhancements in the future Payara Enterprise releases.

CAUTION: The update tool is not currently supported on Windows yet.

[[upgrade-server-command]]
== Upgrade Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> upgrade-server`

*Aim*::
This command can be used to upgrade Payara Server to the specified distribution along with all SSH nodes in the _domain.xml_.
The command will also back up the old version and domains in the default location (_payara5/glassfish/domains_) to allow for rolling back. The command can also be used to downgrade to an older Payara version although this is not encouraged.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--username` |String | The username for the Payara Nexus server.||Yes
|`--version` |String |Specifies the version number of the new version of Payara to use.| |Yes
|`--distribution` |Enum |Specifies the distribution of Payara Server to download. This can payara, payara-web, payara-ml, or payara-web-ml.|payara|No
|=======================================================================

[[upgrade-example]]
=== Example

This example upgrades a Payara Web distribution to version 5.24.1

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> upgrade-server --username example-user --distribution web --verson 5.24.1
----

[[rollback-server-command]]
== Rollback Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> rollback-server`

*Aim*::
This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. The backup of the domain is not restored automatically. If you need that, you should perform a restore-domain command manually pointing to the ZIP created during the upgrade-server process under `$domaindir/backups` (e.g. `payara5/glassfish/domains/domain1/backups`).
