docs/modules/ROOT/pages/security/security-fix-list.adoc, before:

[[security-fixes-summary]]
= Security Fixes Summary

The following is a list of tracked _**C**ommon **V**ulnerabilities
and **E**xposures_ that have been reported and analyzed, which
can or have impacted Payara Server across releases:

[cols="<,<,<,<,<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|ID |CVSS v3.0 Base Score |Status |Summary |Release |Pull Requests |Observations

| https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-28170[CVE-2021-28170] | 5.3 | FIXED | A bug in the ELParserTokenManager enables invalid EL expressions to be evaluated as if they were valid | 5.29.0 | https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/el-ri/pull/160[el-ri #160] | Fixed by backporting a fix from the latest Jakarta Expression Language snapshot version 

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-10693[CVE-2020-10693] | 5.3 | FIXED | A flaw was found in Hibernate Validator version 6.1.2.Final. A bug in the message interpolation processor enables invalid EL expressions to be evaluated as if they were valid. This flaw allows attackers to bypass input sanitation (escaping, stripping) controls. | 5.23.1 |  | Fixed by upgrading Hibernate Validator to 6.1.5

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-17195[CVE-2019-17195] | 9.8 | FIXED | Connect2id Nimbus JOSE+JWT before v7.9 can throw various uncaught exceptions while parsing a JWT, which could result in an application crash (potential information disclosure) or a potential authentication bypass. | 5.21.2 |  | Fixed by upgrading Nimbus JOSE+JWT to 8.20

|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-6950[CVE-2020-6950] | 7.5 | FIXED | Eclipse Mojarra vulnerable to path trasversal flaw via either loc/con parameters | 5.201 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/4492[#4492] | Fixed by upgrading Mojarra to 2.3.14

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-12086[CVE-2019-12086] | 7.5 | FIXED | A Polymorphic Typing issue was discovered in FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.9 | 5.193, 5.192.1, 5.191.4 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/4004[#4004] | 

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14721[CVE-2018-14721] | 10.0 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to conduct server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks | 5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14720[CVE-2018-14720] | 9.8 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to conduct external XML entity (XXE) attacks | 5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14719[CVE-2018-14719] | 9.8 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code |    5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14718[CVE-2018-14718] | 9.8 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code |    5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14371[CVE-2018-14371] | 7.5 |  FIXED | Eclipse Mojarra before 2.3.7 is affected by Directory Traversal via the loc parameter.  |   5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3687[#3687] | Fixed in *Eclipse Mojarra 2.3.9*, component updated
|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-7489[CVE-2018-7489] | 9.8 |  FIXED | Default typing issue in Jackson Databind | 4.1.2.181.3, 4.1.2.182, 5.181.3, 5.182| https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2628[#2628] | Fixed in *Jackson Databind 2.9.5*, component updated
|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-12616[CVE-2017-12616] | 7.5 | N/A | Apache Tomcat security constraint bypass and VirtualDirContext vulnerability |  |  | Unrelated to Payara Server
|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-12615[CVE-2017-12615] | 8.1 | FIXED | Apache Tomcat vulnerability on Windows allowed for remote code execution via crafted PUT requests to JSPs | 4.1.2.174 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2023[#2023] | Fixed in Apache Tomcat, ported to Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-1000031[CVE-2016-1000031] | 9.8 | FIXED | Apache Commons FileUpload before 1.3.3 DiskFileItem File Manipulation Remote Code Execution | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1776[#1776] |
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95493[CVE-2017-3239] | 3.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Local Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1717[#1717] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95483/info[CVE-2017-3247] | 4.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1717[#1717] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95484/info[CVE-2017-3249] | 7.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1712[#1712] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95480[CVE-2017-3250] | 7.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1712[#1712] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95478[CVE-2016-5528] | 9.0 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1712[#1712] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|https://www.cvedetails.com/cve/CVE-2016-5519/[CVE-2016-5519] | 8.8 | N/A |  Oracle GlassFish Server vulnerability in Oracle Fusion Middleware | | | Affects an older version of GlassFish but not Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2007-6726[CVE-2007-6726] | N/A (V2: 4.3) | FIXED |XSS Vulnerabilities in *Dojo* libraries used for admin console |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/35[#35], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/978[#978], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/979[#979] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2012-2098[CVE-2012-2098] | N/A (V2: 5.0) | FIXED |Apache Commons Compress *bzip2* vulnerability allows DDoS attacks |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/799[#799], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/931[#931], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1005[#1005], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1006[#1006] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2013-2035[CVE-2013-2035] |  N/A (V2: 4.4) | FIXED |Race condition in outdated *jLine* code allows arbitrary code execution |4.1.1.171 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/931[#931], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1005[#1005], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1006[#1006], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/839[#839], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/841[#841], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/840[#840] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2014-0050[CVE-2014-0050] | N/A (V2: 7.5) | FIXED |Apache Commons FileUpload allows DDoS attacks via crafted `Content-Type` headers |4.1.1.154.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/560[#560] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-0254[CVE-2015-0254] | N/A (V2: 7.5) | N/A |Vulnerabilities on Apache JSTL allows arbitrary code injection | | |Payara Server uses the `FEATURE_SECURE_PROCESSING` feature of JAXP so is not affected
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-3237[CVE-2015-3237] | N/A (V2: 6.4) | N/A |Vulnerabilities in smb_request_state function in *cURL* | | |Payara Server doesn't ship with either *cURL* or *licurl* so it's not affected
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-5346[CVE-2015-5346] | 8.1 | N/A |Apache Tomcat Vulnerability in session recycling for *SSL* requests | | |Payara Server implementation of the Request class doesn't contain the problematic variable being recycled
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-5351[CVE-2015-5351] | 8.8 | N/A |Apache Tomcat Manager Applications Session and *CSRF* token vulnerabilities | | |Unrelated to Payara Server since this affects specific Tomcat applications
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-0706[CVE-2016-0706] | 4.3 | N/A |Apache Tomcat Vulnerability on `StatusManagerServlet` component allows reads of HTTP requests and discover session IDs | | |Payara Server doesn't use the `StatusManagerServlet` component so it's not affected
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-0714[CVE-2016-0714] | 8.8 | N/A |Session persistence in Apache Tomcat allows arbitrary code injection | | |Payara Server doesn't use the affected objects in the same way that Tomcat does so the flaw is not present
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-0763[CVE-2016-0763] | 6.3 | FIXED |Vulnerability in `ResourceLinkFactory.setGlobalContext` method on Apache Tomcat |4.1.1.164.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1210[#1210] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3092[CVE-2016-3092] | 7.5 | FIXED |Apache Commons FileUpload allows DDoS attacks via `Multipart` class |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/953[#953] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3427[CVE-2016-3427] | 9.0 | FIXED |Unspecified vulnerability in various versions of the Oracle JDK and JRockit |4.1.1.164.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1209[#1209] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3607[CVE-2016-3607] | 9.8 | FIXED |Unspecified vulnerability on Oracle GlassFish 3.0+ affects confidentiality |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1029[#1029], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1031[#1031], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1011[#1011] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3608[CVE-2016-3608] | 5.8 | N/A |Unspecified vulnerability on Oracle GlassFish 3.0.1 affects confidentiality | | |Affects an older version of GlassFish but not Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5388[CVE-2016-5388] | 8.1 | FIXED |Apache Tomcat does not protect applications from untrusted data when using the CGI Servlet |4.1.1.163.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1051[#1051] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5477[CVE-2016-5477] | 5.8 | N/A |Unspecified vulnerability on Oracle GlassFish 3.0.1 affects confidentiality | | |Affects an older version of GlassFish but not Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5519[CVE-2016-5519] | 8.8 | PENDING |Unspecified vulnerability on JSF implementation for Oracle Glassfish 3.0+ | | |Pending for assesment
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-6816[CVE-2016-6816] | 7.1 | N/A |Apache Tomcat HTTP request parsing vulnerability allow injection of data into reponse | | |Payara Server doesn't have included the Coyote components affected
|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-1000028[CVE-2017-1000028] | 7.5 | FIXED | Oracle, GlassFish Server Open Source Edition 4.1 is vulnerable to both authenticated and unauthenticated Directory Traversal vulnerability, that can be exploited by issuing a specially crafted HTTP GET request. | 4.1.1.161 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/632[#632] | Fixed by patching Woodstock
|=======================================================================

Additionally, here are is a list of non-**CVE** vulnerabilities reported and analyzed
as well:

[cols="<,<,<,<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Reference |Status |Summary | Release |Pull Requests |Observations
| Payara Enterprise Support Ticket| FIXED | Vulnerability in Metro's WSDL Code Importing/Parsing - Remote Code Execution | 5.28.0 | https://github.com/payara/Payara-Enterprise/pull/362[#362], https://github.com/payara/Payara-Enterprise/pull/369[#369] | Recommended to immediately upgrade to this release if using any JAX-WS features in applications deployed in public-facing environments.
| https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Clickjacking_Defense_Cheat_Sheet[OWASP Docs] |FIXED | Web administration console is vulnerable against clickjacking/UI redress attacks. | 4.1.2.174 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2097[#2097] |
| Payara Support Ticket | FIXED | Under some circumstances authenticated caller/user identities get confused. | 4.1.1.171.11 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2493/files[#2493] |
| Payara Support Ticket | FIXED | CORBA security context gets corrupted under certain conditions | 4.1.2.181.2, 4.1.2.182, 5.182 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2493[#2493]|
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

Updated security fixes summary Also fixed a component version in release notes against the reality Changed version in antora.yml to align with the release guide

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/security/security-fix-list.adoc, after:

[[security-fixes-summary]]
= Security Fixes Summary

The following is a list of tracked _**C**ommon **V**ulnerabilities
and **E**xposures_ that have been reported and analyzed, which
can or have impacted Payara Server across releases:

[cols="<,<,<,<,<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|ID |CVSS v3.0 Base Score |Status |Summary |Release |Pull Requests |Observations

| https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-25649[CVE-2020-25649] | 7.5 | FIXED | A flaw in FasterXML Jackson Databind 2.10.2 allows vulnerability to XML external entity (XXE) attacks. The highest threat from this vulnerability is data integrity. | 5.30.0 |  | Fixed by upgrading Jackson Databind to 2.12.4

| https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-31684[CVE-2021-31684] | 7.5 | FIXED | A vulnerability in the indexOf function of JSONParserByteArray in JSON Smart versions 1.3 and 2.4 which causes a denial of service (DOS) via a crafted web request. | 5.30.0 |  | Fixed by upgrading JSON Smart to 2.4.7

| https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-28170[CVE-2021-28170] | 5.3 | FIXED | A bug in the ELParserTokenManager enables invalid EL expressions to be evaluated as if they were valid | 5.29.0 | https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/el-ri/pull/160[el-ri #160] | Fixed by backporting a fix from the latest Jakarta Expression Language snapshot version 

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-10693[CVE-2020-10693] | 5.3 | FIXED | A flaw was found in Hibernate Validator version 6.1.2.Final. A bug in the message interpolation processor enables invalid EL expressions to be evaluated as if they were valid. This flaw allows attackers to bypass input sanitation (escaping, stripping) controls. | 5.23.1 |  | Fixed by upgrading Hibernate Validator to 6.1.5

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-17195[CVE-2019-17195] | 9.8 | FIXED | Connect2id Nimbus JOSE+JWT before v7.9 can throw various uncaught exceptions while parsing a JWT, which could result in an application crash (potential information disclosure) or a potential authentication bypass. | 5.21.2 |  | Fixed by upgrading Nimbus JOSE+JWT to 8.20

|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-6950[CVE-2020-6950] | 7.5 | FIXED | Eclipse Mojarra vulnerable to path trasversal flaw via either loc/con parameters | 5.201 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/4492[#4492] | Fixed by upgrading Mojarra to 2.3.14

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-12086[CVE-2019-12086] | 7.5 | FIXED | A Polymorphic Typing issue was discovered in FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.9 | 5.193, 5.192.1, 5.191.4 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/4004[#4004] | 

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14721[CVE-2018-14721] | 10.0 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to conduct server-side request forgery (SSRF) attacks | 5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14720[CVE-2018-14720] | 9.8 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to conduct external XML entity (XXE) attacks | 5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14719[CVE-2018-14719] | 9.8 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code |    5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14718[CVE-2018-14718] | 9.8 | FIXED | FasterXML jackson-databind 2.x before 2.9.7 might allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary code |    5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10, 4.1.2.191, 4.1.2.184.1, 4.1.2.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3461[#3461], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3513[#3513] | Fixed in *FasterXML Jackson 2.9.7*, component updated

|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-14371[CVE-2018-14371] | 7.5 |  FIXED | Eclipse Mojarra before 2.3.7 is affected by Directory Traversal via the loc parameter.  |   5.191, 5.184.1, 5.181.10 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/3687[#3687] | Fixed in *Eclipse Mojarra 2.3.9*, component updated
|https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-7489[CVE-2018-7489] | 9.8 |  FIXED | Default typing issue in Jackson Databind | 4.1.2.181.3, 4.1.2.182, 5.181.3, 5.182| https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2628[#2628] | Fixed in *Jackson Databind 2.9.5*, component updated
|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-12616[CVE-2017-12616] | 7.5 | N/A | Apache Tomcat security constraint bypass and VirtualDirContext vulnerability |  |  | Unrelated to Payara Server
|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-12615[CVE-2017-12615] | 8.1 | FIXED | Apache Tomcat vulnerability on Windows allowed for remote code execution via crafted PUT requests to JSPs | 4.1.2.174 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2023[#2023] | Fixed in Apache Tomcat, ported to Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-1000031[CVE-2016-1000031] | 9.8 | FIXED | Apache Commons FileUpload before 1.3.3 DiskFileItem File Manipulation Remote Code Execution | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1776[#1776] |
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95493[CVE-2017-3239] | 3.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Local Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1717[#1717] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95483/info[CVE-2017-3247] | 4.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1717[#1717] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95484/info[CVE-2017-3249] | 7.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1712[#1712] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95480[CVE-2017-3250] | 7.3 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1712[#1712] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|http://www.securityfocus.com/bid/95478[CVE-2016-5528] | 9.0 | FIXED | Oracle GlassFish Server Remote Security Vulnerability | 4.1.2.173 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1712[#1712] | Fixed in GlassFish 5 code, ported to Payara Server
|https://www.cvedetails.com/cve/CVE-2016-5519/[CVE-2016-5519] | 8.8 | N/A |  Oracle GlassFish Server vulnerability in Oracle Fusion Middleware | | | Affects an older version of GlassFish but not Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2007-6726[CVE-2007-6726] | N/A (V2: 4.3) | FIXED |XSS Vulnerabilities in *Dojo* libraries used for admin console |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/35[#35], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/978[#978], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/979[#979] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2012-2098[CVE-2012-2098] | N/A (V2: 5.0) | FIXED |Apache Commons Compress *bzip2* vulnerability allows DDoS attacks |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/799[#799], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/931[#931], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1005[#1005], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1006[#1006] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2013-2035[CVE-2013-2035] |  N/A (V2: 4.4) | FIXED |Race condition in outdated *jLine* code allows arbitrary code execution |4.1.1.171 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/931[#931], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1005[#1005], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1006[#1006], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/839[#839], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/841[#841], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/840[#840] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2014-0050[CVE-2014-0050] | N/A (V2: 7.5) | FIXED |Apache Commons FileUpload allows DDoS attacks via crafted `Content-Type` headers |4.1.1.154.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/560[#560] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-0254[CVE-2015-0254] | N/A (V2: 7.5) | N/A |Vulnerabilities on Apache JSTL allows arbitrary code injection | | |Payara Server uses the `FEATURE_SECURE_PROCESSING` feature of JAXP so is not affected
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-3237[CVE-2015-3237] | N/A (V2: 6.4) | N/A |Vulnerabilities in smb_request_state function in *cURL* | | |Payara Server doesn't ship with either *cURL* or *licurl* so it's not affected
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-5346[CVE-2015-5346] | 8.1 | N/A |Apache Tomcat Vulnerability in session recycling for *SSL* requests | | |Payara Server implementation of the Request class doesn't contain the problematic variable being recycled
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2015-5351[CVE-2015-5351] | 8.8 | N/A |Apache Tomcat Manager Applications Session and *CSRF* token vulnerabilities | | |Unrelated to Payara Server since this affects specific Tomcat applications
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-0706[CVE-2016-0706] | 4.3 | N/A |Apache Tomcat Vulnerability on `StatusManagerServlet` component allows reads of HTTP requests and discover session IDs | | |Payara Server doesn't use the `StatusManagerServlet` component so it's not affected
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-0714[CVE-2016-0714] | 8.8 | N/A |Session persistence in Apache Tomcat allows arbitrary code injection | | |Payara Server doesn't use the affected objects in the same way that Tomcat does so the flaw is not present
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-0763[CVE-2016-0763] | 6.3 | FIXED |Vulnerability in `ResourceLinkFactory.setGlobalContext` method on Apache Tomcat |4.1.1.164.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1210[#1210] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3092[CVE-2016-3092] | 7.5 | FIXED |Apache Commons FileUpload allows DDoS attacks via `Multipart` class |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/953[#953] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3427[CVE-2016-3427] | 9.0 | FIXED |Unspecified vulnerability in various versions of the Oracle JDK and JRockit |4.1.1.164.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1209[#1209] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3607[CVE-2016-3607] | 9.8 | FIXED |Unspecified vulnerability on Oracle GlassFish 3.0+ affects confidentiality |4.1.1.163 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1029[#1029], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1031[#1031], https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1011[#1011] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-3608[CVE-2016-3608] | 5.8 | N/A |Unspecified vulnerability on Oracle GlassFish 3.0.1 affects confidentiality | | |Affects an older version of GlassFish but not Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5388[CVE-2016-5388] | 8.1 | FIXED |Apache Tomcat does not protect applications from untrusted data when using the CGI Servlet |4.1.1.163.1 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/1051[#1051] |
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5477[CVE-2016-5477] | 5.8 | N/A |Unspecified vulnerability on Oracle GlassFish 3.0.1 affects confidentiality | | |Affects an older version of GlassFish but not Payara Server
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-5519[CVE-2016-5519] | 8.8 | PENDING |Unspecified vulnerability on JSF implementation for Oracle Glassfish 3.0+ | | |Pending for assesment
|http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-6816[CVE-2016-6816] | 7.1 | N/A |Apache Tomcat HTTP request parsing vulnerability allow injection of data into reponse | | |Payara Server doesn't have included the Coyote components affected
|https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-1000028[CVE-2017-1000028] | 7.5 | FIXED | Oracle, GlassFish Server Open Source Edition 4.1 is vulnerable to both authenticated and unauthenticated Directory Traversal vulnerability, that can be exploited by issuing a specially crafted HTTP GET request. | 4.1.1.161 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/632[#632] | Fixed by patching Woodstock
|=======================================================================

Additionally, here are is a list of non-**CVE** vulnerabilities reported and analyzed
as well:

[cols="<,<,<,<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Reference |Status |Summary | Release |Pull Requests |Observations
| Payara Enterprise Support Ticket| FIXED | Vulnerability in Metro's WSDL Code Importing/Parsing - Remote Code Execution | 5.28.0 | https://github.com/payara/Payara-Enterprise/pull/362[#362], https://github.com/payara/Payara-Enterprise/pull/369[#369] | Recommended to immediately upgrade to this release if using any JAX-WS features in applications deployed in public-facing environments.
| https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Clickjacking_Defense_Cheat_Sheet[OWASP Docs] |FIXED | Web administration console is vulnerable against clickjacking/UI redress attacks. | 4.1.2.174 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2097[#2097] |
| Payara Support Ticket | FIXED | Under some circumstances authenticated caller/user identities get confused. | 4.1.1.171.11 | https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2493/files[#2493] |
| Payara Support Ticket | FIXED | CORBA security context gets corrupted under certain conditions | 4.1.2.181.2, 4.1.2.182, 5.182 |https://github.com/payara/Payara/pull/2493[#2493]|
|=======================================================================
