docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/ecosystem/arquillian-containers/payara-server-embedded.adoc, before:

= Payara Server Embedded Arquillian Container

The Payara Server Enterprise Embedded container lifecycle is managed by Arquillian and
 resides in the same JVM where tests are executed using a local protocol.

[[usage]]
== Usage

The Payara Server Enterprise Embedded Arquillian container can be found on Maven Central,
and can be included in your project using the following Maven coordinates:

[source,XML]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>fish.payara.arquillian</groupId>
  <artifactId>arquillian-payara-server-embedded</artifactId>
  <version>${version}</version>
</dependency>
----

You can find the latest artifact version https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/fish.payara.arquillian/arquillian-payara-server-embedded[from here].

[[configure]]
== Configuring the Container

The container can be configured via the arquillian.xml using the standard http://arquillian.org/arquillian-core/#container-configuration[Arquillian Container Configuration] mechanism.

[cols="10,80,10"]
.Configuration Options
|===
| Name | Description | Default

| `bindHttpPort`
| The port number of the http-listener for the embedded Payara Server Enterprise.
| `8181`

| `bindHttpsPort`
| The port number of the https-listener for the embedded Payara Server Enterprise.
| `8182`

| `cleanup`
| Specifies whether Arquillian should cleanup on shutdown. This recursively deletes files in the `instanceRoot` directory.
| `true`

| `configurationReadOnly`
| Specifies whether Payara should write back any changes to specified 
configuration file or config/domain.xml at the specified instance root.
| `true`

| `configurationXml`
| Set the location of configuration file i.e. domain.xml using which the Payara Server Enterprise should run.
| 

| `installRoot`
| The install root directory is the parent directory of a Payara Server Enterprise instance
 directory and corresponds to the base directory for an installation of Payara Server.
| 

| `instanceRoot`
| The instance root directory is the domain directory and embedded Payara Server Enterprise
 uses the server instance directory for domain configuration files.
| the default domain directory

| `resourcesXml`
| A comma-separated list of Payara resources.xml files containing resources 
that will be added to the Payara instance using the `add-resources` command.
| 

|===

[[examples]]
== Examples

To configure the Arquillian Container options, you need to use an `arquillian.xml` file placed on the test classpath. Here's an example `arquillian.xml` file. It configures `adminPort` with a static value. It configures `bindHttpsPort` as a value of a system property `my.httpsport`, which you can specify for example in the maven `surefire` plugin using the `systemPropertyVariables` option or on command line like `mvn -Dmy.httpsport=8081 test`.

[source,XML]
.Example `arquillian.xml` file
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<arquillian xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xmlns="http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian
                http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian/arquillian_1_0.xsd">

    <container qualifier="payara-embedded" default="true">
        <configuration>
            <property name="bindHttpPort">8080</property>
            <property name="bindHttpsPort">${my.httpsport}</property>
        </configuration>
    </container>
</arquillian>
----

If you want to configure more containers, you can switch between them by setting the `arquillian.launch` system property to the container's qualifier. This is how you can do it with the maven `surefire` plugin (`my.httpsport` system property is used to set the `bindHttpsPort` property in `arquillian.xml`):

[source,XML]
.Example Surefire plugin configuration in a `pom.xml` file
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
    <configuration>
        <systemPropertyVariables>
            <arquillian.launch>payara</arquillian.launch>
            <my.httpsport>8081</my.httpsport>
        </systemPropertyVariables>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
----

Commit message:

FISH-778 Document Embedded Arquillian Server System Properties
Signed-off-by: Andrew Pielage <pandrex247@hotmail.com>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/ecosystem/arquillian-containers/payara-server-embedded.adoc, after:

= Payara Server Embedded Arquillian Container

The Payara Server Enterprise Embedded container lifecycle is managed by Arquillian and
 resides in the same JVM where tests are executed using a local protocol.

[[usage]]
== Usage

The Payara Server Enterprise Embedded Arquillian container can be found on Maven Central,
and can be included in your project using the following Maven coordinates:

[source,XML]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>fish.payara.arquillian</groupId>
  <artifactId>arquillian-payara-server-embedded</artifactId>
  <version>${version}</version>
</dependency>
----

You can find the latest artifact version https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/fish.payara.arquillian/arquillian-payara-server-embedded[from here].

[[configure]]
== Configuring the Container

The container can be configured via the arquillian.xml using the standard http://arquillian.org/arquillian-core/#container-configuration[Arquillian Container Configuration] mechanism.

[cols="10,80,10"]
.Configuration Options
|===
| Name | Description | Default

| `bindHttpPort`
| The port number of the http-listener for the embedded Payara Server Enterprise.
| `8181`

| `bindHttpsPort`
| The port number of the https-listener for the embedded Payara Server Enterprise.
| `8182`

| `cleanup`
| Specifies whether Arquillian should cleanup on shutdown. This recursively deletes files in the `instanceRoot` directory.
| `true`

| `configurationReadOnly`
| Specifies whether Payara should write back any changes to specified 
configuration file or config/domain.xml at the specified instance root.
| `true`

| `configurationXml`
| Set the location of configuration file i.e. domain.xml using which the Payara Server Enterprise should run.
| 

| `installRoot`
| The install root directory is the parent directory of a Payara Server Enterprise instance
 directory and corresponds to the base directory for an installation of Payara Server.
| 

| `instanceRoot`
| The instance root directory is the domain directory and embedded Payara Server Enterprise
 uses the server instance directory for domain configuration files.
| the default domain directory

| `resourcesXml`
| A comma-separated list of Payara resources.xml files containing resources 
that will be added to the Payara instance using the `add-resources` command.
|

| `serverSystemProperties`
| A colon-separated list of 'key=value' properties that will be created on the server upon
boot of the embedded server. These values should be formatted as when executing the
`create-system-properties` command.
|

|===

[[examples]]
== Examples

To configure the Arquillian Container options, you need to use an `arquillian.xml` file placed on the test classpath. Here's an example `arquillian.xml` file. It configures `adminPort` with a static value. It configures `bindHttpsPort` as a value of a system property `my.httpsport`, which you can specify for example in the maven `surefire` plugin using the `systemPropertyVariables` option or on command line like `mvn -Dmy.httpsport=8081 test`.

[source,XML]
.Example `arquillian.xml` file
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<arquillian xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xmlns="http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian
                http://jboss.org/schema/arquillian/arquillian_1_0.xsd">

    <container qualifier="payara-embedded" default="true">
        <configuration>
            <property name="bindHttpPort">8080</property>
            <property name="bindHttpsPort">${my.httpsport}</property>
        </configuration>
    </container>
</arquillian>
----

If you want to configure more containers, you can switch between them by setting the `arquillian.launch` system property to the container's qualifier. This is how you can do it with the maven `surefire` plugin (`my.httpsport` system property is used to set the `bindHttpsPort` property in `arquillian.xml`):

[source,XML]
.Example Surefire plugin configuration in a `pom.xml` file
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
    <configuration>
        <systemPropertyVariables>
            <arquillian.launch>payara</arquillian.launch>
            <my.httpsport>8081</my.httpsport>
        </systemPropertyVariables>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
----
