docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/microprofile/config.adoc, before:

= Eclipse MicroProfile Config API

_Since *4.1.2.173*&nbsp;_

Provided version of the API: {mpConfigSpecUrl}[MicroProfile Config {mpConfigVersion}]

== Background
The Config API was created to allow for the modification of application
configuration from outside the application without needing the application to be
repackaged.

A full overview for the reasoning behind the API can be found in
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/blob/master/README.adoc[the
README for the source code repository.]

{mpConfigSpecUrl}[The complete specification] is maintained in the same repository

[[config-sources]]
== Config Sources
A `ConfigSource` is a definition of a source of configuration values that can be
used by an application. In addition to
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/blob/master/spec/src/main/asciidoc/configsources.asciidoc[
the default ConfigSources outlined by the specification], the following are also
supported ConfigSources:


[cols="2,1,10", options="header"]
|===
|Source
|Ordinal
|Description

|`directory`
|90
|Reads configuration properties from files in a specified directory. Each file name 
is the configuration property name and the contents of the file are the config property
value. This config source can be used to read https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#using-secrets-as-files-from-a-pod[Kubernetes secrets files].
See below on how to specify the directory to be used for secrets files using asadmin.

|`domain`
|110
|Retrieves and stores config values in the domain.xml as key values. These will
then apply to all instances within a domain

|`config`
|120
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of the named configuration in
the domain.xml; `server-config`, for example. MicroProfile Configuration property
values will apply to all instances that use the Payara configuration specified.

|`server`
|130
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of the server in the domain.xml.
Property values will only apply on the named server instance

|`application`
|140
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of the application. Property
values will only be available for the specified application on all server
instances it is deployed

|`module`
|150
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of an individual module within
an appllication. Property values will only be available for the specified module
on all server instances it is deployed

|`cluster`
|160
|Retrieves and stores config values in the *Hazelcast* cluster as name value pairs.
These will be available for all server instances that are members of the cluster.

|`jndi`
|115
|Retrieves and stores config values within the jndi tree. The property name being
the dotted name path in the JNDI tree and the value being stored in the JNDI tree.
These are modifiable by current admin console functionality.

|`password`
|105
|Retrieves and stores config values in the password alias store. These will be 
available to all server instances in a domain.

|===

:previewVersion: 4.1.2.181
include::partial$tech-preview.adoc[]

== Converters
In addition to the standard converters specified by the API, Payara's implementation
includes out-of-the-box converters for URL and InetAddress. These have `@Priority`
of `1`, the same as the default converters.

== Payara Specific Configuration Properties
In addition to the standard configuration properties, Payara Server Enterprise and Micro Enterprise provide a number of out-of-the-box config properties
you can use in your application to find information about the Payara runtime environment.

[cols="7,10", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Description

|`payara.instance.type`
|The type of the runtime from `DAS`, `INSTANCE`, `EMBEDDED`, `MICRO`

|`payara.instance.name`
|The name of the instance e.g. `server`

|`payara.instance.root`
|The directory which is the root of the instance installation

|`payara.domain.name`
|The name of the Payara domain

|`payara.domain.installroot`
|The directory which is the root of the Payara software installation

|`payara.config.dir`
|The directory in which the server's configuration files reside

|`payara.instance.starttime`
|The start time of the server in `System.currentTimeMillis`

|`payara.instance.config.name`
|The name of the configuration this server is using

|`payara.instance.admin.port`
|The administration port number of this instance

|`payara.instance.admin.host`
|The host IP address which the admin listener is listening on

|`payara.instance.http.port`
|The HTTP port for http-listener

|`payara.instance.http.address`
|The IP address the http listener is listening on

|`payara.instance.http.enabled`
|Whether the http listener is enabled

|`payara.instance.https.port`
|The HTTP port for https-listener

|`payara.instance.https.address`
|The IP address the https listener is listening on

|`payara.instance.https.enabled`
|Whether the https listener is enabled

|===

[[config-ordinal-configuration]]
== Config Ordinal Configuration

Config Ordinal can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the Config Ordinal in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → Config → Ordinal:

image:microprofile/config-ordinal.png[Set Config Ordinal]

[[using-asadmin-commands]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

IMPORTANT: A `--source` value of `jndi` is not supported for these asadmin commands in 
4.1.2.173. The JNDI `ConfigSource` does exist and is usable from the Config API, though.

==== `set-config-ordinal`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-ordinal --ordinal=<integer.value> --source=domain|config|
server|application|module|cluster`
*Aim*::
Provides a way to set the ordinal for a given config source. Where multiple 
configuration properties exist, the property from a source with a  higher
ordinal number is preferred.

===== Command Options

[cols="2,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`ordinal`
|The value of the ordinal to set. This must be a number greater than 1. A lower
number ordinal means lower order of precedence.
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The value of the source to change. Must be one of: `domain`, `config`, `server`,
`application`, `module`, `cluster`
|-
|yes

|`target`
|The target Payara config to apply the change to
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-ordinal --ordinal=600 --source=application
----

==== `get-config-ordinal`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> get-config-ordinal --source=domain|config|server|application|module|cluster`
*Aim*::
Returns the ordinal value for the given ConfigSource type.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`source`
|The ConfigSource to get the ordinal for. Must be one of: `domain`, `config`,
`server`, `application`, `module`, `cluster`
|-
|yes

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> get-config-ordinal --source=cluster
----

[[config-property-configuration]]
== Config Property Configuration

Config Property can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console-get]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the Config Property in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → Config → Property:

image:microprofile/config-property.png[Set Config Property]

[[using-asadmin-commands-get]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

==== `set-config-property`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-property --propertyName=<property.name> --propertyValue=
<property.val> --source=domain|config|server|application|module|cluster
--sourceName=<source.name> --moduleName=<module.name> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Sets the given property name and value in one of the built-in config sources. The
source is specified with `--source` and, where there is ambiguity, the `--sourceName`
and `--moduleName` options can be used. For example, where the source is `server`,
the `--sourceName` can be used to specify the name of the server where the config
property is to be stored.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`propertyName`
|The name of the configuration property to set
|-
|yes

|`propertyValue`
|The value of the configuration property to set
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The ConfigSource where the property is to be stored
|-
|yes

|`sourceName`
|The name of the ConfigSource when there may be ambiguity, for example a
ConfigSource of type `application` must specify the name of the application. This
property is required for sources of type: `config`, `server`, `application` or
`module`
|-
|no

|`moduleName`
|The name of the module when the ConfigSource is of type `module`. When this is
specified, the `sourceName` parameter must be provided and must have the name of
the application where the module is deployed.
|-
|no

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-property
    --propertyName=JMSBrokerURL
    --propertyValue=my.jms.hostname
    --source=module
    --sourceName=myApplication
    --moduleName=myModule
    --target=myAppCluster
----


==== `delete-config-property`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> delete-config-property --propertyName=<property.name> --source=domain|
config|server|application|module|cluster --sourceName=<source.name>
--moduleName=<module.name> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Deletes the given property name in one of the built-in config sources so that the property no longer exists. The
source is specified with `--source` and, where there is ambiguity, the `--sourceName`
and `--moduleName` options can be used. For example, where the source is `server`,
the `--sourceName` can be used to specify the name of the server where the config
property is to be stored. `moduleName` should only be used when the `--source=module`.


===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`propertyName`
|The name of the configuration property to delete
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The ConfigSource where the property is stored
|-
|yes

|`sourceName`
|The name of the ConfigSource when there may be ambiguity, for example a
ConfigSource of type `application` must specify the name of the application. This
property is required for sources of type: `config`, `server`, `application` or
`module`
|-
|no

|`moduleName`
|The name of the module when the ConfigSource is of type `module`. When this is
specified, the `sourceName` parameter must be provided and must have the name of
the application where the module is deployed.
|-
|no

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> delete-config-property
    --propertyName=JMSBrokerURL
    --source=module
    --sourceName=myApplication
    --moduleName=myModule
    --target=myAppCluster
----



==== `get-config-property`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> get-config-property --propertyName=<property.name> --source=domain|
config|server|application|module|cluster --sourceName=<source.name>
--moduleName=<module.name> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Gets the value for the given property name in one of the built-in config sources. The
source is specified with `--source` and, where there is ambiguity, the `--sourceName`
and `--moduleName` options can be used. For example, where the source is `server`,
the `--sourceName` can be used to specify the name of the server where the config
property is to be stored.


===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`propertyName`
|The name of the configuration property to get
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The ConfigSource where the property is stored
|-
|yes

|`sourceName`
|The name of the ConfigSource when there may be ambiguity, for example a
ConfigSource of type `application` must specify the name of the application. This
property is required for sources of type: `config`, `server`, `application` or
`module`
|-
|no

|`moduleName`
|The name of the module when the ConfigSource is of type `module`. When this is
specified, the `sourceName` parameter must be provided and must have the name of
the application where the module is deployed.
|-
|no

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> get-config-property
    --propertyName=JMSBrokerURL
    --source=module
    --sourceName=myApplication
    --moduleName=myModule
    --target=myAppCluster
----

[[config-secrets-directory-configuration]]
== Config Secrets Directory Configuration

Config Secrets Directory can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console-secret]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the Config Secrets Directory in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → Config → Directory:

image:microprofile/config-property.png[Set Config Property]

[[using-asadmin-commands-secret]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

==== `set-config-dir`

:previewVersion: 4.1.2.181
include::partial$tech-preview.adoc[]

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-dir --directory=<full.path.to.dir> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Sets the directory to be used for the directory config source.


===== Command Options

[cols="2,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`directory`
|Full path to the directory containing configuration files
|-
|yes

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-secrets-dir
    --directory=/home/payara/.secrets
    --target=myAppCluster
----

==== `get-config-secrets-dir`

:previewVersion: 4.1.2.181
include::partial$tech-preview.adoc[]

*Usage*::
`asadmin> get-config-secrets-dir --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Gets the value of the directory to be used for the directory config source.


===== Command Options

[cols="2,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> get-config-secrets-dir
    --target=myAppCluster
----

[[config-cache-duration-configuration]]
== Config Cache Duration

_Since *5.20.0*&nbsp;_

Config cache duration can be configured by using Asadmin commands.
By default properties have a TTL (time to live) of 60 seconds.
That means each individual property does not change for 60 seconds since it has been resolved before.
Therefore it can take up to 60 seconds for changes made visiable by a config source to become effective.
If properties were not resolved recently, the change can become visible faster than the cache duration or even immediately because some time already passed since they had been last resolved and cached.

=== Using Asadmin Commands

==== `set-config-cache`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-cache --duration=<duration.in.second> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Sets the cache duration for the target instance(s). Any duration equal to or below zero disables the caching of MP config properties.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`duration`
|Duration in seconds properties are cached
|60
|yes

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

Disable caching:
[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-cache
    --duration=0
    --target=myAppCluster
----

Set cache TTL (time to live) for properties to 30 seconds.
[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-cache
    --duration=30
    --target=myAppCluster
----

Commit message:

APPSERV-20 Document new payara expression config source

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/microprofile/config.adoc, after:

= Eclipse MicroProfile Config API

_Since *4.1.2.173*&nbsp;_

Provided version of the API: {mpConfigSpecUrl}[MicroProfile Config {mpConfigVersion}]

== Background
The Config API was created to allow for the modification of application
configuration from outside the application without needing the application to be
repackaged.

A full overview for the reasoning behind the API can be found in
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/blob/master/README.adoc[the
README for the source code repository.]

{mpConfigSpecUrl}[The complete specification] is maintained in the same repository

[[config-sources]]
== Config Sources
A `ConfigSource` is a definition of a source of configuration values that can be
used by an application. In addition to
https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-config/blob/master/spec/src/main/asciidoc/configsources.asciidoc[
the default ConfigSources outlined by the specification], the following are also
supported ConfigSources:


[cols="2,1,10", options="header"]
|===
|Source
|Ordinal
|Description

|`directory`
|90
|Reads configuration properties from files in a specified directory. Each file name 
is the configuration property name and the contents of the file are the config property
value. This config source can be used to read https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#using-secrets-as-files-from-a-pod[Kubernetes secrets files].
See below on how to specify the directory to be used for secrets files using asadmin.

|`domain`
|110
|Retrieves and stores config values in the domain.xml as key values. These will
then apply to all instances within a domain

|`config`
|120
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of the named configuration in
the domain.xml; `server-config`, for example. MicroProfile Configuration property
values will apply to all instances that use the Payara configuration specified.

|`server`
|130
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of the server in the domain.xml.
Property values will only apply on the named server instance

|`application`
|140
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of the application. Property
values will only be available for the specified application on all server
instances it is deployed

|`module`
|150
|Retrieves and stores config values at the level of an individual module within
an appllication. Property values will only be available for the specified module
on all server instances it is deployed

|`cluster`
|160
|Retrieves and stores config values in the *Hazelcast* cluster as name value pairs.
These will be available for all server instances that are members of the cluster.

|`jndi`
|115
|Retrieves and stores config values within the jndi tree. The property name being
the dotted name path in the JNDI tree and the value being stored in the JNDI tree.
These are modifiable by current admin console functionality.

|`password`
|105
|Retrieves and stores config values in the password alias store. These will be 
available to all server instances in a domain.

|`payara expression`
|170
|Reads configuration properties from a `payara-expression-config.properties` file. This
should be stored in the same location as your `microprofile-config.properties` file.
This file can be used to reference properties containing variables which will be
translated to their actual values upon retrieval. The property values should be in
the format referenced here:
xref:documentation/payara-server/server-configuration/var-substitution/types-of-variables.adoc[Types of Variables]

|===

:previewVersion: 4.1.2.181
include::partial$tech-preview.adoc[]

== Converters
In addition to the standard converters specified by the API, Payara's implementation
includes out-of-the-box converters for URL and InetAddress. These have `@Priority`
of `1`, the same as the default converters.

== Payara Specific Configuration Properties
In addition to the standard configuration properties, Payara Server Enterprise and Micro Enterprise provide a number of out-of-the-box config properties
you can use in your application to find information about the Payara runtime environment.

[cols="7,10", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Description

|`payara.instance.type`
|The type of the runtime from `DAS`, `INSTANCE`, `EMBEDDED`, `MICRO`

|`payara.instance.name`
|The name of the instance e.g. `server`

|`payara.instance.root`
|The directory which is the root of the instance installation

|`payara.domain.name`
|The name of the Payara domain

|`payara.domain.installroot`
|The directory which is the root of the Payara software installation

|`payara.config.dir`
|The directory in which the server's configuration files reside

|`payara.instance.starttime`
|The start time of the server in `System.currentTimeMillis`

|`payara.instance.config.name`
|The name of the configuration this server is using

|`payara.instance.admin.port`
|The administration port number of this instance

|`payara.instance.admin.host`
|The host IP address which the admin listener is listening on

|`payara.instance.http.port`
|The HTTP port for http-listener

|`payara.instance.http.address`
|The IP address the http listener is listening on

|`payara.instance.http.enabled`
|Whether the http listener is enabled

|`payara.instance.https.port`
|The HTTP port for https-listener

|`payara.instance.https.address`
|The IP address the https listener is listening on

|`payara.instance.https.enabled`
|Whether the https listener is enabled

|===

[[config-ordinal-configuration]]
== Config Ordinal Configuration

Config Ordinal can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the Config Ordinal in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → Config → Ordinal:

image:microprofile/config-ordinal.png[Set Config Ordinal]

[[using-asadmin-commands]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

IMPORTANT: A `--source` value of `jndi` is not supported for these asadmin commands in 
4.1.2.173. The JNDI `ConfigSource` does exist and is usable from the Config API, though.

==== `set-config-ordinal`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-ordinal --ordinal=<integer.value> --source=domain|config|
server|application|module|cluster`
*Aim*::
Provides a way to set the ordinal for a given config source. Where multiple 
configuration properties exist, the property from a source with a  higher
ordinal number is preferred.

===== Command Options

[cols="2,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`ordinal`
|The value of the ordinal to set. This must be a number greater than 1. A lower
number ordinal means lower order of precedence.
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The value of the source to change. Must be one of: `domain`, `config`, `server`,
`application`, `module`, `cluster`
|-
|yes

|`target`
|The target Payara config to apply the change to
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-ordinal --ordinal=600 --source=application
----

==== `get-config-ordinal`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> get-config-ordinal --source=domain|config|server|application|module|cluster`
*Aim*::
Returns the ordinal value for the given ConfigSource type.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`source`
|The ConfigSource to get the ordinal for. Must be one of: `domain`, `config`,
`server`, `application`, `module`, `cluster`
|-
|yes

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> get-config-ordinal --source=cluster
----

[[config-property-configuration]]
== Config Property Configuration

Config Property can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console-get]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the Config Property in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → Config → Property:

image:microprofile/config-property.png[Set Config Property]

[[using-asadmin-commands-get]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

==== `set-config-property`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-property --propertyName=<property.name> --propertyValue=
<property.val> --source=domain|config|server|application|module|cluster
--sourceName=<source.name> --moduleName=<module.name> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Sets the given property name and value in one of the built-in config sources. The
source is specified with `--source` and, where there is ambiguity, the `--sourceName`
and `--moduleName` options can be used. For example, where the source is `server`,
the `--sourceName` can be used to specify the name of the server where the config
property is to be stored.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`propertyName`
|The name of the configuration property to set
|-
|yes

|`propertyValue`
|The value of the configuration property to set
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The ConfigSource where the property is to be stored
|-
|yes

|`sourceName`
|The name of the ConfigSource when there may be ambiguity, for example a
ConfigSource of type `application` must specify the name of the application. This
property is required for sources of type: `config`, `server`, `application` or
`module`
|-
|no

|`moduleName`
|The name of the module when the ConfigSource is of type `module`. When this is
specified, the `sourceName` parameter must be provided and must have the name of
the application where the module is deployed.
|-
|no

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-property
    --propertyName=JMSBrokerURL
    --propertyValue=my.jms.hostname
    --source=module
    --sourceName=myApplication
    --moduleName=myModule
    --target=myAppCluster
----


==== `delete-config-property`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> delete-config-property --propertyName=<property.name> --source=domain|
config|server|application|module|cluster --sourceName=<source.name>
--moduleName=<module.name> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Deletes the given property name in one of the built-in config sources so that the property no longer exists. The
source is specified with `--source` and, where there is ambiguity, the `--sourceName`
and `--moduleName` options can be used. For example, where the source is `server`,
the `--sourceName` can be used to specify the name of the server where the config
property is to be stored. `moduleName` should only be used when the `--source=module`.


===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`propertyName`
|The name of the configuration property to delete
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The ConfigSource where the property is stored
|-
|yes

|`sourceName`
|The name of the ConfigSource when there may be ambiguity, for example a
ConfigSource of type `application` must specify the name of the application. This
property is required for sources of type: `config`, `server`, `application` or
`module`
|-
|no

|`moduleName`
|The name of the module when the ConfigSource is of type `module`. When this is
specified, the `sourceName` parameter must be provided and must have the name of
the application where the module is deployed.
|-
|no

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> delete-config-property
    --propertyName=JMSBrokerURL
    --source=module
    --sourceName=myApplication
    --moduleName=myModule
    --target=myAppCluster
----



==== `get-config-property`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> get-config-property --propertyName=<property.name> --source=domain|
config|server|application|module|cluster --sourceName=<source.name>
--moduleName=<module.name> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Gets the value for the given property name in one of the built-in config sources. The
source is specified with `--source` and, where there is ambiguity, the `--sourceName`
and `--moduleName` options can be used. For example, where the source is `server`,
the `--sourceName` can be used to specify the name of the server where the config
property is to be stored.


===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`propertyName`
|The name of the configuration property to get
|-
|yes

|`source`
|The ConfigSource where the property is stored
|-
|yes

|`sourceName`
|The name of the ConfigSource when there may be ambiguity, for example a
ConfigSource of type `application` must specify the name of the application. This
property is required for sources of type: `config`, `server`, `application` or
`module`
|-
|no

|`moduleName`
|The name of the module when the ConfigSource is of type `module`. When this is
specified, the `sourceName` parameter must be provided and must have the name of
the application where the module is deployed.
|-
|no

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> get-config-property
    --propertyName=JMSBrokerURL
    --source=module
    --sourceName=myApplication
    --moduleName=myModule
    --target=myAppCluster
----

[[config-secrets-directory-configuration]]
== Config Secrets Directory Configuration

Config Secrets Directory can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console-secret]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the Config Secrets Directory in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → Config → Directory:

image:microprofile/config-property.png[Set Config Property]

[[using-asadmin-commands-secret]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

==== `set-config-dir`

:previewVersion: 4.1.2.181
include::partial$tech-preview.adoc[]

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-dir --directory=<full.path.to.dir> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Sets the directory to be used for the directory config source.


===== Command Options

[cols="2,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`directory`
|Full path to the directory containing configuration files
|-
|yes

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-secrets-dir
    --directory=/home/payara/.secrets
    --target=myAppCluster
----

==== `get-config-secrets-dir`

:previewVersion: 4.1.2.181
include::partial$tech-preview.adoc[]

*Usage*::
`asadmin> get-config-secrets-dir --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Gets the value of the directory to be used for the directory config source.


===== Command Options

[cols="2,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> get-config-secrets-dir
    --target=myAppCluster
----

[[config-cache-duration-configuration]]
== Config Cache Duration

_Since *5.20.0*&nbsp;_

Config cache duration can be configured by using Asadmin commands.
By default properties have a TTL (time to live) of 60 seconds.
That means each individual property does not change for 60 seconds since it has been resolved before.
Therefore it can take up to 60 seconds for changes made visiable by a config source to become effective.
If properties were not resolved recently, the change can become visible faster than the cache duration or even immediately because some time already passed since they had been last resolved and cached.

=== Using Asadmin Commands

==== `set-config-cache`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-config-cache --duration=<duration.in.second> --target=<target[default:server]>`
*Aim*::
Sets the cache duration for the target instance(s). Any duration equal to or below zero disables the caching of MP config properties.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`duration`
|Duration in seconds properties are cached
|60
|yes

|`target`
|The target configuration where the command should be run
|server (the DAS)
|no

|===


===== Example

Disable caching:
[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-cache
    --duration=0
    --target=myAppCluster
----

Set cache TTL (time to live) for properties to 30 seconds.
[source,Shell]
----
asadmin> set-config-cache
    --duration=30
    --target=myAppCluster
----
