docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/microprofile/openapi.adoc, before:

= Eclipse MicroProfile OpenAPI API

_Since *4.1.2.182*; *5.182*&nbsp;_

Provided version of the API: {mpOpenAPISpecUrl}[MicroProfile OpenAPI {mpOpenAPIVersion}]

[[background]]
== Background
The OpenAPI API was designed to provide a standard interface for documenting and exposing RESTful APIs. The MicroProfile OpenAPI API provides a set of interfaces and annotations to allow application developers to produce an OpenAPI document from their JAX-RS applications. The OpenAPI API is somewhat similar to the Swagger API,
so many concepts in the API will be familiar.

For a full overview of the API, review https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/releases[
the documentation for the appropriate release.]

{mpOpenAPISpecUrl}[MicroProfile OpenAPI 1.0] was released in MicroProfile 1.3.

IMPORTANT: Version {mpOpenAPIVersion} of the OpenAPI specification does not define the behaviour of implementations where multiple applications are deployed to the same container. This limitation will be addressed in a later version of the OpenAPI specification.

[[endpoint]]
== REST Endpoint
MicroProfile OpenAPI specifies that an OpenAPI document should be published at the endpoint `/openapi` documenting a deployed application. For both Payara Server Enterprise and Payara Micro Enterprise, this means that the endpoint can be found on any HTTP port (e.g. `8080`) after deploying an application. The OpenAPI document displayed will always be for the most recently deployed application, except in the special case of disabling the service (see <<configuration-note, configuration>>).

By default the OpenAPI document is displayed in YAML format, although this can be changed to JSON by changing the `Accept` header of the request. Alternatively if using a browser, this can also be done by specifying a `format` query parameter. For example, `http://localhost:8080/openapi?format=json`. The valid values are `json` and `yaml`.

[[sources]]
== OpenAPI Configuration Sources

MicroProfile OpenAPI specifies several ways of configuring the data in the produced OpenAPI document. These are all provided by the OpenAPI API artifact:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile-openapi-api</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

[[sources-config]]
=== Config Properties

The OpenAPI can be configured through the xref:documentation/microprofile/config/README.adoc[Config API]. For example, these configuration properties can be put in the `microprofile-config.properties`.

|===
| Config key | Value description

| `mp.openapi.model.reader` | Configuration property to specify the fully qualified name of the <<sources-model-reader, OASModelReader>> implementation.
| `mp.openapi.filter` | Configuration property to specify the fully qualified name of the <<sources-filter, OASFilter>> implementation.
| `mp.openapi.scan.disable`  |  Configuration property to disable annotation scanning. Default value is `false`.
| `mp.openapi.scan.packages`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of packages to scan. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.packages=com.xyz.PackageA,com.xyz.PackageB`
| `mp.openapi.scan.classes`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of classes to scan. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.classes=com.xyz.MyClassA,com.xyz.MyClassB`
| `mp.openapi.scan.exclude.packages`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of packages to exclude from scans. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.exclude.packages=com.xyz.PackageC,com.xyz.PackageD`
| `mp.openapi.scan.exclude.classes`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of classes to exclude from scans. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.exclude.classes=com.xyz.MyClassC,com.xyz.MyClassD`
| `mp.openapi.scan.lib`  |  Configuration property to scan the packaged jar files inside the WAR (WEB-INF\lib). Default value is `false`.
| `mp.openapi.servers`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of global servers that provide connectivity information. For example,
`mp.openapi.servers=https://xyz.com/v1,https://abc.com/v1`
| `mp.openapi.servers.path.`   |  Prefix of the configuration property to specify an alternative list of servers to service all operations in a path. For example,
`mp.openapi.servers.path./airlines/ngs/{id}=https://xyz.io/v1`
| `mp.openapi.servers.operation.` | Prefix of the configuration property to specify an alternative list of servers to service an operation.
Operations that want to specify an alternative list of servers must define an `operationId`, a unique string used to identify the operation. For example,
`mp.openapi.servers.operation.getBooking=https://abc.io/v1`
|===

[[sources-model-reader]]
=== OASModelReader

`org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi.OASModelReader`

The OASModelReader interface can be implemented by an application developer. It must then be declared as an Config API variable in the form:

----
mp.openapi.model.reader=fish.payara.examples.OASModelReaderImpl
----

This class will be called at the beginning of the OpenAPI document generation, and will create the initial OpenAPI document.

[[sources-filter]]
=== OASFilter

`org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi.OASFilter`

The OASFilter interface can be implemented by an application developer. It must then be declared as an Config API variable in the form:

----
mp.openapi.filter=fish.payara.examples.OASFilterImpl
----

Each method in the implementation will be called on every appropriate element in the OpenAPI model. For example, the method `filterPathItem(PathItem pathItem)` will be called for every `PathItem` in the document.
This class is called last, before the document is published.

[[sources-static-document]]
=== Static Document

The MicroProfile OpenAPI supports using a static OpenAPI document to build from. This static file can be placed in either `META-INF` directory in a WAR file. Most often, this means putting the file in `src/main/resources/META-INF`.

The following file names are allowed for this file. The file given must also be in the specified format.

|===
| File Format | Allowed File Names

| `yaml` | `openapi.yaml` `openapi.yml`
| `json` | `openapi.json`
|===

[[sources-annotations]]
=== Annotations

The MicroProfile OpenAPI API provides many annotations to use to augment the OpenAPI document. These are detailed in the https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/blob/master/spec/src/main/asciidoc/microprofile-openapi-spec.adoc#annotations[OpenAPI Specification]. These annotations are applied before the OASFilter.

[[sources-annotation-example]]
==== Example

The following code could be used to give the corresponding operation an ID of "hello world".

[source, java]
----
import org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi.annotations.Operation;
...
    @GET
    @Operation(operationId = "hello world")
    public String helloWorld() {
        return "Hello World!";
    }
----

[[openApi-configuration]]
== OpenAPI Configuration

OpenAPI can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the OpenAPI in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → OpenAPI:

image:microprofile/openapi.png[Set OpenAPI Configuration]

[[using-asadmin-commands]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

[[set-openapi-configuration]]
==== `set-openapi-configuration`

*Usage*::
----
asadmin> set-openapi-configuration
        [--enabled=true|false]
        [--corsheaders=true|false]
        [--securityenabled=true|false]
        [--roles=<role-list>] 
        [--target=<target[default:server]>]
        [--virtualservers=<virtualserver-list>]
----
*Aim*::
Enables or disables the OpenAPI service.

[[configuration-note]]
NOTE: When the OpenAPI service is disabled, the `/openapi` endpoint will always return a 403 error and any applications deployed during this period will *not* have an OpenAPI document built. Enabling the service again will not cause a documents to be built for any currently deployed applications.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Type
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`enabled`
|Boolean
|Whether the service should be enabled/disabled.
|true
|No

|`corsheaders`
|Boolean
|Whether or not CORS headers (e.g. `Access-Control-Allow-Origin=*`) should be added to OpenAPI endpoint responses.

_Since Payara Server 5.192_
|false
|No

|`securityenabled`
|Boolean
|Whether or not secure access to the openapi endpoint is enabled.

_Since Payara Server 5.193_
|false
|No

|`roles`
|String
|If defined, the endpoint will be assigned to a list of the role specified as a comma-separated.

_Since Payara Server 5.193_
|`microprofile`
|No

|`target`
|String
|The target Payara config to apply the change to.
|server-config
|No

|`virtualservers`
|String
|If defined, the '/openapi' endpoint will be assigned to the list of virtual servers specified as a comma-separated list of names. Otherwise, the endpoint will be assigned to all virtual servers available. _Since Payara Server 4.1.2.184 and 5.184_
|-
|No
|===

[[get-openapi-configuration]]
==== `get-openapi-configuration`

*Usage*::
----
asadmin> get-openapi-configuration
    [--target=<target>]
----
*Aim*::
Gets the status of the OpenAPI service.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Type
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`target`
|String
|The target Payara config to apply the change to.
|server-config
|false
|===

[[security-configuration]]
=== Security Configuration
By default, OpenAPI endpoints binds to root context application which is 
`__default-web-module` (docroot) system application and `__default-web-module` 
application uses default realm (`file`) of server. If user application deployed 
with the empty context-root then the security configuration of the deployed 
application will be shared by OpenAPI endpoints.

Commit message:

FISH-123 Add an option to configure the URL for MP OpenAPI endpoint

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/microprofile/openapi.adoc, after:

= Eclipse MicroProfile OpenAPI API

_Since *4.1.2.182*; *5.182*&nbsp;_

Provided version of the API: {mpOpenAPISpecUrl}[MicroProfile OpenAPI {mpOpenAPIVersion}]

[[background]]
== Background
The OpenAPI API was designed to provide a standard interface for documenting and exposing RESTful APIs. The MicroProfile OpenAPI API provides a set of interfaces and annotations to allow application developers to produce an OpenAPI document from their JAX-RS applications. The OpenAPI API is somewhat similar to the Swagger API,
so many concepts in the API will be familiar.

For a full overview of the API, review https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/releases[
the documentation for the appropriate release.]

{mpOpenAPISpecUrl}[MicroProfile OpenAPI 1.0] was released in MicroProfile 1.3.

IMPORTANT: Version {mpOpenAPIVersion} of the OpenAPI specification does not define the behaviour of implementations where multiple applications are deployed to the same container. This limitation will be addressed in a later version of the OpenAPI specification.

[[endpoint]]
== REST Endpoint
MicroProfile OpenAPI specifies that an OpenAPI document should be published at the endpoint `/openapi` documenting a deployed application. For both Payara Server Enterprise and Payara Micro Enterprise, this means that the endpoint can be found on any HTTP port (e.g. `8080`) after deploying an application. The OpenAPI document displayed will always be for the most recently deployed application, except in the special case of disabling the service (see <<configuration-note, configuration>>).

By default the OpenAPI document is displayed in YAML format, although this can be changed to JSON by changing the `Accept` header of the request. Alternatively if using a browser, this can also be done by specifying a `format` query parameter. For example, `http://localhost:8080/openapi?format=json`. The valid values are `json` and `yaml`.

[[sources]]
== OpenAPI Configuration Sources

MicroProfile OpenAPI specifies several ways of configuring the data in the produced OpenAPI document. These are all provided by the OpenAPI API artifact:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi</groupId>
    <artifactId>microprofile-openapi-api</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

[[sources-config]]
=== Config Properties

The OpenAPI can be configured through the xref:documentation/microprofile/config/README.adoc[Config API]. For example, these configuration properties can be put in the `microprofile-config.properties`.

|===
| Config key | Value description

| `mp.openapi.model.reader` | Configuration property to specify the fully qualified name of the <<sources-model-reader, OASModelReader>> implementation.
| `mp.openapi.filter` | Configuration property to specify the fully qualified name of the <<sources-filter, OASFilter>> implementation.
| `mp.openapi.scan.disable`  |  Configuration property to disable annotation scanning. Default value is `false`.
| `mp.openapi.scan.packages`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of packages to scan. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.packages=com.xyz.PackageA,com.xyz.PackageB`
| `mp.openapi.scan.classes`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of classes to scan. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.classes=com.xyz.MyClassA,com.xyz.MyClassB`
| `mp.openapi.scan.exclude.packages`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of packages to exclude from scans. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.exclude.packages=com.xyz.PackageC,com.xyz.PackageD`
| `mp.openapi.scan.exclude.classes`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of classes to exclude from scans. For example,
`mp.openapi.scan.exclude.classes=com.xyz.MyClassC,com.xyz.MyClassD`
| `mp.openapi.scan.lib`  |  Configuration property to scan the packaged jar files inside the WAR (WEB-INF\lib). Default value is `false`.
| `mp.openapi.servers`  |  Configuration property to specify the list of global servers that provide connectivity information. For example,
`mp.openapi.servers=https://xyz.com/v1,https://abc.com/v1`
| `mp.openapi.servers.path.`   |  Prefix of the configuration property to specify an alternative list of servers to service all operations in a path. For example,
`mp.openapi.servers.path./airlines/ngs/{id}=https://xyz.io/v1`
| `mp.openapi.servers.operation.` | Prefix of the configuration property to specify an alternative list of servers to service an operation.
Operations that want to specify an alternative list of servers must define an `operationId`, a unique string used to identify the operation. For example,
`mp.openapi.servers.operation.getBooking=https://abc.io/v1`
|===

[[sources-model-reader]]
=== OASModelReader

`org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi.OASModelReader`

The OASModelReader interface can be implemented by an application developer. It must then be declared as an Config API variable in the form:

----
mp.openapi.model.reader=fish.payara.examples.OASModelReaderImpl
----

This class will be called at the beginning of the OpenAPI document generation, and will create the initial OpenAPI document.

[[sources-filter]]
=== OASFilter

`org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi.OASFilter`

The OASFilter interface can be implemented by an application developer. It must then be declared as an Config API variable in the form:

----
mp.openapi.filter=fish.payara.examples.OASFilterImpl
----

Each method in the implementation will be called on every appropriate element in the OpenAPI model. For example, the method `filterPathItem(PathItem pathItem)` will be called for every `PathItem` in the document.
This class is called last, before the document is published.

[[sources-static-document]]
=== Static Document

The MicroProfile OpenAPI supports using a static OpenAPI document to build from. This static file can be placed in either `META-INF` directory in a WAR file. Most often, this means putting the file in `src/main/resources/META-INF`.

The following file names are allowed for this file. The file given must also be in the specified format.

|===
| File Format | Allowed File Names

| `yaml` | `openapi.yaml` `openapi.yml`
| `json` | `openapi.json`
|===

[[sources-annotations]]
=== Annotations

The MicroProfile OpenAPI API provides many annotations to use to augment the OpenAPI document. These are detailed in the https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-open-api/blob/master/spec/src/main/asciidoc/microprofile-openapi-spec.adoc#annotations[OpenAPI Specification]. These annotations are applied before the OASFilter.

[[sources-annotation-example]]
==== Example

The following code could be used to give the corresponding operation an ID of "hello world".

[source, java]
----
import org.eclipse.microprofile.openapi.annotations.Operation;
...
    @GET
    @Operation(operationId = "hello world")
    public String helloWorld() {
        return "Hello World!";
    }
----

[[openApi-configuration]]
== OpenAPI Configuration

OpenAPI can be configured by using Admin Console or Asadmin commands. 

_Since *5.183*&nbsp;_

[[using-the-admin-console]]
=== Using the Admin Console

To configure the OpenAPI in the Admin Console, go to Configuration 
→ [instance-configuration (like server-config)] → MicroProfile → OpenAPI:

image:microprofile/openapi.png[Set OpenAPI Configuration]

[[using-asadmin-commands]]
=== Using Asadmin Commands

[[set-openapi-configuration]]
==== `set-openapi-configuration`

*Usage*::
----
asadmin> set-openapi-configuration
        [--enabled=true|false]
        [--corsheaders=true|false]
        [--securityenabled=true|false]
        [--roles=<role-list>]
        [--endpoint=<context-root[default:openapi]>]
        [--target=<target[default:server]>]
        [--virtualservers=<virtualserver-list>]
----
*Aim*::
Enables or disables the OpenAPI service.

[[configuration-note]]
NOTE: When the OpenAPI service is disabled, the `/openapi` endpoint will always return a 403 error and any applications deployed during this period will *not* have an OpenAPI document built. Enabling the service again will not cause a documents to be built for any currently deployed applications.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Type
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`enabled`
|Boolean
|Whether the service should be enabled/disabled.
|true
|No

|`corsheaders`
|Boolean
|Whether or not CORS headers (e.g. `Access-Control-Allow-Origin=*`) should be added to OpenAPI endpoint responses.

_Since Payara Server 5.192_
|false
|No

|`securityenabled`
|Boolean
|Whether or not secure access to the openapi endpoint is enabled.

_Since Payara Server 5.193_
|false
|No

|`roles`
|String
|If defined, the endpoint will be assigned to a list of the role specified as a comma-separated.

_Since Payara Server 5.193_
|`microprofile`
|No

|`endpoint`
|String
|The context root used to expose the openapi checks endpoint.
|openapi
|No

|`target`
|String
|The target Payara config to apply the change to.
|server-config
|No

|`virtualservers`
|String
|If defined, the '/openapi' endpoint will be assigned to the list of virtual servers specified as a comma-separated list of names. Otherwise, the endpoint will be assigned to all virtual servers available. _Since Payara Server 4.1.2.184 and 5.184_
|-
|No
|===

[[get-openapi-configuration]]
==== `get-openapi-configuration`

*Usage*::
----
asadmin> get-openapi-configuration
    [--target=<target>]
----
*Aim*::
Gets the status of the OpenAPI service.

===== Command Options

[cols="1,1,10,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Option
|Type
|Description
|Default
|Mandatory

|`target`
|String
|The target Payara config to apply the change to.
|server-config
|false
|===

[[security-configuration]]
=== Security Configuration
By default, OpenAPI endpoints binds to root context application which is 
`__default-web-module` (docroot) system application and `__default-web-module` 
application uses default realm (`file`) of server. If user application deployed 
with the empty context-root then the security configuration of the deployed 
application will be shared by OpenAPI endpoints.
