docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/jbatch/asadmin.adoc, before:

[[improved-asadmin-commands]]
= Improved Asadmin Commands

The following is a list of the administration commands that have been introduced
or changed from GlassFish in Payara Server to improve the *JBatch API*.

[[set-batch-runtime-configuration]]
== `set-batch-runtime-configuration`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-batch-runtime-configuration --datasourcelookupname="jdbc/default"
  --executorservicelookupname="concurrent/__defaultManagedExecutorService"
  --schemaName="APP" --tablePrefix="BJP" --tableSuffix="BJS"`

*Aim*::
Configures the batch runtime storage and execution settings.

[[command-options]]
=== Command Options

[cols="3,1,4,1,1",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Shortcut |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--target` |N/A |The instance or cluster to configure |server |No
|`--datasourcelookupname` |-d |The JNDI name of the JDBC data source used to store
job information | N/A | Yes (unless `executorservicelookupname` is specified)
|`--executorservicelookupname` |-x | The JNDI name of the Managed Executor Service
that provides threads for  the jobs' execution. | N/A
| Yes (unless `datasourceLookupName` is used)
|`--schemaName` | -n |The database schema that holds the batch tables. |APP | No
|`--tablePrefix` | N/A |The prefix to apply to the batch table name. | N/A | No
|`--tableSuffix` | N/A |Sets the suffix to apply to the batch table name. | N/A |No
|=======================================================================

[[example]]
=== Example

The following command will set the data source, and the prefix and suffix for the
DAS:

[source, shell]
----
asadmin > set-batch-runtime-configuration --target="server"
            --datasourcelookupname="jdbc/BatchJobsDS"
            --tablePrefix="BATCHJ_" --tableSuffix="_JB"

----

== `purge-jbatch-repository`

_Since Payara Server 4.1.2.173_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> purge-jbatch-repository <apptag>`

*Aim*::
Purges the current JBatch repository of all jobs scheduled for the referenced
application's tag. The application's tag is structured like this:
+
----
<Configuration Identifier>:<Application Name>__/<Application Name>
----
+
Where *Configuration Identifier* is the identifier of the configuration associated
to the instance or cluster where the application is deployed and *Application Name*
is the name of the deployed application.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

There are no options available.

[[example-1]]
=== Example

To remove all current jobs for an application named _jbatch-test_ deployed on the
DAS (`server-config`) then run the following command:

[source, shell]
----
asadmin > purge-jbatch-repository "server-config:jbatch-test__/jbatch-test"
----

NOTE: The command will remove all current jobs created by the referenced application
whether these jobs are running or not.

TIP: If you are having trouble finding the application's tag for your application,
you can get it programmatically on a Java EE application by using the following
code:

[source, java]
----
import com.ibm.jbatch.container.servicesmanager.ServicesManager;
import com.ibm.jbatch.container.servicesmanager.ServicesManagerImpl;
import com.ibm.jbatch.container.services.IPersistenceManagerService;
...

JobOperator jobOperator = getJobOperator();
Long executionId = jobOperator.start("job-name", new Properties());

ServicesManager manager = ServicesManagerImpl.getInstance();
IPersistenceManagerService ps = manager.getPersistenceManagerService();
String applicationTag = ps.getJobCurrentTag(jobid);
----

You need to add a dependency to IBM's *JBatch runtime* to your project to access
the classes mentioned:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.ibm.jbatch</groupId>
    <artifactId>com.ibm.jbatch-runtime-all</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

[[clean-jbatch-repository]]
== `clean-jbatch-repository`

_Since Payara Server 5.25.0_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> clean-jbatch-repository --status COMPLETED|ALL --days <int.value> <JobName>`

*Aim*::
The clean-jbatch-repository subcommand deletes records of job executions

[[command-options-clean]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",a,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option | Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--status` 
|
* ALL
* COMPLETED
| The status of batch jobs executions to which delete the records of.
If ALL then all job executions will be deleted, regardless of status.
If COMPLETED only job executions that successfully completed will be deleted. | COMPLETED |No
|`--days` | Integer| The number of days previous that the end time of the job execution must be to get deleted. | 0 | No
|=======================================================================

[[example-clean]]
=== Example
The following command will delete all Batch jobs that were executed before 7 days ago.
[source, shell]
----
asadmin > clean-jbatch-repository --status=ALL --days=7
----

[[list-batch-jobs]]
== `list-batch-jobs`

_Since Payara Server 5.183_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> list-batch-jobs --output jobname,appname,instancecount,instanceid,
executionid,batchstatus,starttime,endtime,exitstatus --limit <long.value> 
--offset <long.value> --header true|false <JobName>`

*Aim*::
Lists batch jobs and information about them.

[[command-options-2]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Shortcut |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--target` |N/A |The instance or cluster to configure |server |No
|`--long` |-l |Shows detailed information about batch jobs | false |No
|`--output` |-0 |Shows specific information about batch jobs. You can specify 
information to display by using comma-separarted list. Following are the available
values: jobname, appname, instancecount, instanceid, executionid, batchstatus, 
starttime, endtime, exitstatus| The jobname and instancecount information are 
displayed by default| No
|`--header` | -h |Option to choose whether column heading should be displayed or not
 |false | No
|`--limit` | N/A |Set number of rows of batch jobs to display| N/A |No
|`--offset` | N/A |Set number of rows of batch jobs to skip | N/A | No
|=======================================================================

[[example-2]]
=== Example

[source, shell]
----
asadmin > list-batch-jobs --target server
            --long true
            --limit 20 
            --offset 0
----

Commit message:

Correct example command and indicate H2 support only.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/jbatch/asadmin.adoc, after:

[[improved-asadmin-commands]]
= Improved Asadmin Commands

The following is a list of the administration commands that have been introduced
or changed from GlassFish in Payara Server to improve the *JBatch API*.

[[set-batch-runtime-configuration]]
== `set-batch-runtime-configuration`

*Usage*::
`asadmin> set-batch-runtime-configuration --datasourcelookupname="jdbc/default"
  --executorservicelookupname="concurrent/__defaultManagedExecutorService"
  --schemaName="APP" --tablePrefix="BJP" --tableSuffix="BJS"`

*Aim*::
Configures the batch runtime storage and execution settings.

[[command-options]]
=== Command Options

[cols="3,1,4,1,1",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Shortcut |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--target` |N/A |The instance or cluster to configure |server |No
|`--datasourcelookupname` |-d |The JNDI name of the JDBC data source used to store
job information | N/A | Yes (unless `executorservicelookupname` is specified)
|`--executorservicelookupname` |-x | The JNDI name of the Managed Executor Service
that provides threads for  the jobs' execution. | N/A
| Yes (unless `datasourceLookupName` is used)
|`--schemaName` | -n |The database schema that holds the batch tables. |APP | No
|`--tablePrefix` | N/A |The prefix to apply to the batch table name. | N/A | No
|`--tableSuffix` | N/A |Sets the suffix to apply to the batch table name. | N/A |No
|=======================================================================

[[example]]
=== Example

The following command will set the data source, and the prefix and suffix for the
DAS:

[source, shell]
----
asadmin > set-batch-runtime-configuration --target="server"
            --datasourcelookupname="jdbc/BatchJobsDS"
            --tablePrefix="BATCHJ_" --tableSuffix="_JB"

----

== `purge-jbatch-repository`

_Since Payara Server 4.1.2.173_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> purge-jbatch-repository <apptag>`

*Aim*::
Purges the current JBatch repository of all jobs scheduled for the referenced
application's tag. The application's tag is structured like this:
+
----
<Configuration Identifier>:<Application Name>__/<Application Name>
----
+
Where *Configuration Identifier* is the identifier of the configuration associated
to the instance or cluster where the application is deployed and *Application Name*
is the name of the deployed application.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

There are no options available.

[[example-1]]
=== Example

To remove all current jobs for an application named _jbatch-test_ deployed on the
DAS (`server-config`) then run the following command:

[source, shell]
----
asadmin > purge-jbatch-repository "server-config:jbatch-test__/jbatch-test"
----

NOTE: The command will remove all current jobs created by the referenced application
whether these jobs are running or not.

TIP: If you are having trouble finding the application's tag for your application,
you can get it programmatically on a Java EE application by using the following
code:

[source, java]
----
import com.ibm.jbatch.container.servicesmanager.ServicesManager;
import com.ibm.jbatch.container.servicesmanager.ServicesManagerImpl;
import com.ibm.jbatch.container.services.IPersistenceManagerService;
...

JobOperator jobOperator = getJobOperator();
Long executionId = jobOperator.start("job-name", new Properties());

ServicesManager manager = ServicesManagerImpl.getInstance();
IPersistenceManagerService ps = manager.getPersistenceManagerService();
String applicationTag = ps.getJobCurrentTag(jobid);
----

You need to add a dependency to IBM's *JBatch runtime* to your project to access
the classes mentioned:

[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.ibm.jbatch</groupId>
    <artifactId>com.ibm.jbatch-runtime-all</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
----

[[clean-jbatch-repository]]
== `clean-jbatch-repository`

_Since Payara Server 5.25.0_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> clean-jbatch-repository --status COMPLETED|ALL --days <int.value> <JobName>`

*Aim*::
The clean-jbatch-repository subcommand deletes records of job executions.

IMPORTANT: With version 5.25.0 only H2 database is supported by this command.

[[command-options-clean]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",a,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option | Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--status` 
|
* ALL
* COMPLETED
| The status of batch jobs executions to which delete the records of.
If ALL then all job executions will be deleted, regardless of status.
If COMPLETED only job executions that successfully completed will be deleted. | COMPLETED |No
|`--days` | Integer| The number of days previous that the end time of the job execution must be to get deleted. | 0 | No
|=======================================================================

[[example-clean]]
=== Example
The following command will delete all Batch jobs that were executed before 7 days ago.
[source, shell]
----
asadmin > clean-jbatch-repository --status=ALL --days=7 test job
----

[[list-batch-jobs]]
== `list-batch-jobs`

_Since Payara Server 5.183_

*Usage*::
`asadmin> list-batch-jobs --output jobname,appname,instancecount,instanceid,
executionid,batchstatus,starttime,endtime,exitstatus --limit <long.value> 
--offset <long.value> --header true|false <JobName>`

*Aim*::
Lists batch jobs and information about them.

[[command-options-2]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Shortcut |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--target` |N/A |The instance or cluster to configure |server |No
|`--long` |-l |Shows detailed information about batch jobs | false |No
|`--output` |-0 |Shows specific information about batch jobs. You can specify 
information to display by using comma-separarted list. Following are the available
values: jobname, appname, instancecount, instanceid, executionid, batchstatus, 
starttime, endtime, exitstatus| The jobname and instancecount information are 
displayed by default| No
|`--header` | -h |Option to choose whether column heading should be displayed or not
 |false | No
|`--limit` | N/A |Set number of rows of batch jobs to display| N/A |No
|`--offset` | N/A |Set number of rows of batch jobs to skip | N/A | No
|=======================================================================

[[example-2]]
=== Example

[source, shell]
----
asadmin > list-batch-jobs --target server
            --long true
            --limit 20 
            --offset 0
----
